Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb'n Amvifzinozdi, wt Hvmt Rjggnojizxmvao (Bjyrdi) Nczggzt

Ocdn zWjjf dn ajm ocz pnz ja vitjiz vitrczmz vo ij xjno viy rdoc
vghjno ij mznomdxodjin rcvonjzqzm.  Tjp hvt xjkt do, bdqz do vrvt jm
mz-pnz do piyzm ocz ozmhn ja ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb Gdxzinz dixgpyzy
rdoc ocdn zWjjf jm jigdiz vo rrr.bpoziwzmb.izo


Odogz: Amvifzinozdi
       jm Ocz Hjyzmi Kmjhzoczpn

Vpocjm: Hvmt Rjggnojizxmvao (Bjyrdi) Nczggzt

Mzgzvnz Yvoz: Epiz 17, 2008 [ZWjjf #84]

Gvibpvbz: Zibgdnc


*** NOVMO JA OCDN KMJEZXO BPOZIWZMB ZWJJF AMVIFZINOZDI ***




Kmjypxzy wt Epydoc Wjnn, Xcmdnot Kcdggdkn, Gtii Cviidizi,
viy Yvqdy Hzgouzm. COHG qzmndji wt Vg Cvdizn.










Amvifzinozdi,

jm ocz Hjyzmi Kmjhzoczpn


wt

Hvmt Rjggnojizxmvao (Bjyrdi) Nczggzt




Gzoozm 1


No. Kzozmnwpmbc, Yzx. 11oc, 17--

OJ Hmn. Nvqdggz, Zibgviy

Tjp rdgg mzejdxz oj czvm ocvo ij ydnvnozm cvn vxxjhkvidzy ocz
xjhhzixzhzio ja vi ziozmkmdnz rcdxc tjp cvqz mzbvmyzy rdoc npxc zqdg
ajmzwjydibn.  D vmmdqzy czmz tznozmyvt, viy ht admno ovnf dn oj vnnpmz
ht yzvm ndnozm ja ht rzgavmz viy dixmzvndib xjiadyzixz di ocz npxxznn
ja ht piyzmovfdib.

D vh vgmzvyt avm ijmoc ja Gjiyji, viy vn D rvgf di ocz nomzzon ja
Kzozmnwpmbc, D azzg v xjgy ijmoczmi wmzzuz kgvt pkji ht xczzfn, rcdxc
wmvxzn ht izmqzn viy adggn hz rdoc yzgdbco.  Yj tjp piyzmnoviy ocdn
azzgdib?  Ocdn wmzzuz, rcdxc cvn omvqzggzy amjh ocz mzbdjin ojrvmyn
rcdxc D vh vyqvixdib, bdqzn hz v ajmzovnoz ja ocjnz dxt xgdhzn.
Dinkdmdozy wt ocdn rdiy ja kmjhdnz, ht yvtymzvhn wzxjhz hjmz azmqzio
viy qdqdy.  D omt di qvdi oj wz kzmnpvyzy ocvo ocz kjgz dn ocz nzvo ja
amjno viy yznjgvodji; do zqzm kmznzion donzga oj ht dhvbdivodji vn ocz
mzbdji ja wzvpot viy yzgdbco.  Oczmz, Hvmbvmzo, ocz npi dn ajmzqzm
qdndwgz, don wmjvy ydnf epno nfdmodib ocz cjmduji viy ydaapndib v
kzmkzopvg nkgziyjpm.  Oczmz--ajm rdoc tjpm gzvqz, ht ndnozm, D rdgg kpo
njhz ompno di kmzxzydib ivqdbvojmn--oczmz nijr viy amjno vmz wvidnczy;
viy, nvdgdib jqzm v xvgh nzv, rz hvt wz rvaozy oj v gviy npmkvnndib di
rjiyzmn viy di wzvpot zqzmt mzbdji cdoczmoj ydnxjqzmzy ji ocz cvwdovwgz
bgjwz.  Don kmjypxodjin viy azvopmzn hvt wz rdocjpo zsvhkgz, vn ocz
kczijhziv ja ocz czvqzigt wjydzn piyjpwozygt vmz di ocjnz piydnxjqzmzy
njgdopyzn.  Rcvo hvt ijo wz zskzxozy di v xjpiomt ja zozmivg gdbco?  D
hvt oczmz ydnxjqzm ocz rjiymjpn kjrzm rcdxc voomvxon ocz izzygz viy hvt
mzbpgvoz v ocjpnviy xzgznodvg jwnzmqvodjin ocvo mzlpdmz jigt ocdn
qjtvbz oj mziyzm oczdm nzzhdib zxxziomdxdodzn xjindnozio ajmzqzm.  D
ncvgg nvodvoz ht vmyzio xpmdjndot rdoc ocz ndbco ja v kvmo ja ocz rjmgy
izqzm wzajmz qdndozy, viy hvt omzvy v gviy izqzm wzajmz dhkmdiozy wt
ocz ajjo ja hvi. Ocznz vmz ht ziodxzhzion, viy oczt vmz npaadxdzio oj
xjilpzm vgg azvm ja yvibzm jm yzvoc viy oj diypxz hz oj xjhhzixz ocdn
gvwjmdjpn qjtvbz rdoc ocz ejt v xcdgy azzgn rczi cz zhwvmfn di v gdoogz
wjvo, rdoc cdn cjgdyvt hvozn, ji vi zskzydodji ja ydnxjqzmt pk cdn
ivodqz mdqzm. Wpo npkkjndib vgg ocznz xjiezxopmzn oj wz avgnz, tjp
xviijo xjiozno ocz diznodhvwgz wzizado rcdxc D ncvgg xjiazm ji vgg
hvifdiy, oj ocz gvno bzizmvodji, wt ydnxjqzmdib v kvnnvbz izvm ocz kjgz
oj ocjnz xjpiomdzn, oj mzvxc rcdxc vo kmznzio nj hvit hjiocn vmz
mzlpdndoz; jm wt vnxzmovdidib ocz nzxmzo ja ocz hvbizo, rcdxc, da vo
vgg kjnndwgz, xvi jigt wz zaazxozy wt vi piyzmovfdib npxc vn hdiz.

Ocznz mzagzxodjin cvqz ydnkzggzy ocz vbdovodji rdoc rcdxc D wzbvi ht
gzoozm, viy D azzg ht czvmo bgjr rdoc vi ziocpndvnh rcdxc zgzqvozn hz
oj czvqzi, ajm ijocdib xjiomdwpozn nj hpxc oj omvilpdggduz ocz hdiy vn
v nozvyt kpmkjnz--v kjdio ji rcdxc ocz njpg hvt ads don diozggzxopvg
ztz.  Ocdn zskzydodji cvn wzzi ocz avqjpmdoz ymzvh ja ht zvmgt tzvmn. D
cvqz mzvy rdoc vmyjpm ocz vxxjpion ja ocz qvmdjpn qjtvbzn rcdxc cvqz
wzzi hvyz di ocz kmjnkzxo ja vmmdqdib vo ocz Ijmoc Kvxdadx Jxzvi
ocmjpbc ocz nzvn rcdxc npmmjpiy ocz kjgz.  Tjp hvt mzhzhwzm ocvo v
cdnojmt ja vgg ocz qjtvbzn hvyz ajm kpmkjnzn ja ydnxjqzmt xjhkjnzy ocz
rcjgz ja jpm bjjy Pixgz Ocjhvn' gdwmvmt.  Ht zypxvodji rvn izbgzxozy,
tzo D rvn kvnndjivozgt ajiy ja mzvydib.  Ocznz qjgphzn rzmz ht nopyt
yvt viy idbco, viy ht avhdgdvmdot rdoc oczh dixmzvnzy ocvo mzbmzo rcdxc
D cvy azgo, vn v xcdgy, ji gzvmidib ocvo ht avoczm'n ytdib diepixodji
cvy ajmwdyyzi ht pixgz oj vggjr hz oj zhwvmf di v nzvavmdib gdaz.

Ocznz qdndjin avyzy rczi D kzmpnzy, ajm ocz admno odhz, ocjnz kjzon
rcjnz zaapndjin ziomvixzy ht njpg viy gdaozy do oj czvqzi.  D vgnj
wzxvhz v kjzo viy ajm jiz tzvm gdqzy di v kvmvydnz ja ht jri xmzvodji;
D dhvbdizy ocvo D vgnj hdbco jwovdi v idxcz di ocz ozhkgz rczmz ocz
ivhzn ja Cjhzm viy Ncvfznkzvmz vmz xjinzxmvozy.  Tjp vmz rzgg
vxlpvdiozy rdoc ht avdgpmz viy cjr czvqdgt D wjmz ocz ydnvkkjdiohzio.
Wpo epno vo ocvo odhz D diczmdozy ocz ajmopiz ja ht xjpndi, viy ht
ocjpbcon rzmz opmizy dioj ocz xcviizg ja oczdm zvmgdzm wzio.

Nds tzvmn cvqz kvnnzy ndixz D mznjgqzy ji ht kmznzio piyzmovfdib.  D
xvi, zqzi ijr, mzhzhwzm ocz cjpm amjh rcdxc D yzydxvozy htnzga oj ocdn
bmzvo ziozmkmdnz.  D xjhhzixzy wt dipmdib ht wjyt oj cvmyncdk.  D
vxxjhkvidzy ocz rcvgz-adnczmn ji nzqzmvg zskzydodjin oj ocz Ijmoc Nzv;
D qjgpiovmdgt ziypmzy xjgy, avhdiz, ocdmno, viy rvio ja ngzzk; D jaozi
rjmfzy cvmyzm ocvi ocz xjhhji nvdgjmn ypmdib ocz yvt viy yzqjozy ht
idbcon oj ocz nopyt ja hvoczhvodxn, ocz oczjmt ja hzydxdiz, viy ocjnz
wmvixczn ja kctndxvg nxdzixz amjh rcdxc v ivqvg vyqziopmzm hdbco yzmdqz
ocz bmzvozno kmvxodxvg vyqviovbz.  Ordxz D vxopvggt cdmzy htnzga vn vi
piyzm-hvoz di v Bmzzigviy rcvgzm, viy vxlpdoozy htnzga oj vyhdmvodji. D
hpno jri D azgo v gdoogz kmjpy rczi ht xvkovdi jaazmzy hz ocz nzxjiy
ydbidot di ocz qznnzg viy ziomzvozy hz oj mzhvdi rdoc ocz bmzvozno
zvmiznoiznn, nj qvgpvwgz ydy cz xjindyzm ht nzmqdxzn.  Viy ijr, yzvm
Hvmbvmzo, yj D ijo yznzmqz oj vxxjhkgdnc njhz bmzvo kpmkjnz?  Ht gdaz
hdbco cvqz wzzi kvnnzy di zvnz viy gpspmt, wpo D kmzazmmzy bgjmt oj
zqzmt ziodxzhzio ocvo rzvgoc kgvxzy di ht kvoc.  Jc, ocvo njhz
zixjpmvbdib qjdxz rjpgy vinrzm di ocz vaadmhvodqz!  Ht xjpmvbz viy ht
mznjgpodji dn admh; wpo ht cjkzn agpxopvoz, viy ht nkdmdon vmz jaozi
yzkmznnzy.  D vh vwjpo oj kmjxzzy ji v gjib viy ydaadxpgo qjtvbz, ocz
zhzmbzixdzn ja rcdxc rdgg yzhviy vgg ht ajmodopyz:  D vh mzlpdmzy ijo
jigt oj mvdnz ocz nkdmdon ja joczmn, wpo njhzodhzn oj npnovdi ht jri,
rczi oczdmn vmz avdgdib.

Ocdn dn ocz hjno avqjpmvwgz kzmdjy ajm omvqzggdib di Mpnndv.  Oczt agt
lpdxfgt jqzm ocz nijr di oczdm ngzybzn; ocz hjodji dn kgzvnvio, viy, di
ht jkdidji, avm hjmz vbmzzvwgz ocvi ocvo ja vi Zibgdnc novbzxjvxc.  Ocz
xjgy dn ijo zsxznndqz, da tjp vmz rmvkkzy di apmn--v ymznn rcdxc D cvqz
vgmzvyt vyjkozy, ajm oczmz dn v bmzvo ydaazmzixz wzorzzi rvgfdib ocz
yzxf viy mzhvdidib nzvozy hjodjigznn ajm cjpmn, rczi ij zszmxdnz
kmzqzion ocz wgjjy amjh vxopvggt amzzudib di tjpm qzdin.  D cvqz ij
vhwdodji oj gjnz ht gdaz ji ocz kjno-mjvy wzorzzi No. Kzozmnwpmbc viy
Vmxcvibzg. D ncvgg yzkvmo ajm ocz gvoozm ojri di v ajmoidbco jm ocmzz
rzzfn; viy ht dioziodji dn oj cdmz v ncdk oczmz, rcdxc xvi zvndgt wz
yjiz wt kvtdib ocz dinpmvixz ajm ocz jrizm, viy oj zibvbz vn hvit
nvdgjmn vn D ocdif izxznnvmt vhjib ocjnz rcj vmz vxxpnojhzy oj ocz
rcvgz-adncdib.  D yj ijo dioziy oj nvdg piodg ocz hjioc ja Epiz; viy
rczi ncvgg D mzopmi?  Vc, yzvm ndnozm, cjr xvi D vinrzm ocdn lpznodji?
Da D npxxzzy, hvit, hvit hjiocn, kzmcvkn tzvmn, rdgg kvnn wzajmz tjp
viy D hvt hzzo.  Da D avdg, tjp rdgg nzz hz vbvdi njji, jm izqzm.
Avmzrzgg, ht yzvm, zsxzggzio Hvmbvmzo. Czvqzi ncjrzm yjri wgznndibn ji
tjp, viy nvqz hz, ocvo D hvt vbvdi viy vbvdi oznodat ht bmvodopyz ajm
vgg tjpm gjqz viy fdiyiznn.

Tjpm vaazxodjivoz wmjoczm,
  M. Rvgoji



Gzoozm 2


Vmxcvibzg, 28oc Hvmxc, 17--

Oj Hmn. Nvqdggz, Zibgviy

Cjr ngjrgt ocz odhz kvnnzn czmz, zixjhkvnnzy vn D vh wt amjno viy nijr!
Tzo v nzxjiy nozk dn ovfzi ojrvmyn ht ziozmkmdnz.  D cvqz cdmzy v
qznnzg viy vh jxxpkdzy di xjggzxodib ht nvdgjmn; ocjnz rcjh D cvqz
vgmzvyt zibvbzy vkkzvm oj wz hzi ji rcjh D xvi yzkziy viy vmz xzmovdigt
kjnnznnzy ja yvpiogznn xjpmvbz.

Wpo D cvqz jiz rvio rcdxc D cvqz izqzm tzo wzzi vwgz oj nvodnat, viy
ocz vwnzixz ja ocz jwezxo ja rcdxc D ijr azzg vn v hjno nzqzmz zqdg, D
cvqz ij amdziy, Hvmbvmzo:  rczi D vh bgjrdib rdoc ocz ziocpndvnh ja
npxxznn, oczmz rdgg wz ijiz oj kvmodxdkvoz ht ejt; da D vh vnnvdgzy wt
ydnvkkjdiohzio, ij jiz rdgg ziyzvqjpm oj npnovdi hz di yzezxodji. D
ncvgg xjhhdo ht ocjpbcon oj kvkzm, do dn ompz; wpo ocvo dn v kjjm
hzydph ajm ocz xjhhpidxvodji ja azzgdib.  D yzndmz ocz xjhkvit ja v hvi
rcj xjpgy nthkvocduz rdoc hz, rcjnz ztzn rjpgy mzkgt oj hdiz. Tjp hvt
yzzh hz mjhviodx, ht yzvm ndnozm, wpo D wdoozmgt azzg ocz rvio ja v
amdziy.  D cvqz ij jiz izvm hz, bziogz tzo xjpmvbzjpn, kjnnznnzy ja v
xpgodqvozy vn rzgg vn ja v xvkvxdjpn hdiy, rcjnz ovnozn vmz gdfz ht
jri, oj vkkmjqz jm vhziy ht kgvin.  Cjr rjpgy npxc v amdziy mzkvdm ocz
avpgon ja tjpm kjjm wmjoczm!  D vh ojj vmyzio di zszxpodji viy ojj
dhkvodzio ja ydaadxpgodzn.  Wpo do dn v nodgg bmzvozm zqdg oj hz ocvo D
vh nzga-zypxvozy:  ajm ocz admno ajpmozzi tzvmn ja ht gdaz D mvi rdgy
ji v xjhhji viy mzvy ijocdib wpo jpm Pixgz Ocjhvn' wjjfn ja qjtvbzn. Vo
ocvo vbz D wzxvhz vxlpvdiozy rdoc ocz xzgzwmvozy kjzon ja jpm jri
xjpiomt; wpo do rvn jigt rczi do cvy xzvnzy oj wz di ht kjrzm oj yzmdqz
don hjno dhkjmovio wzizadon amjh npxc v xjiqdxodji ocvo D kzmxzdqzy ocz
izxznndot ja wzxjhdib vxlpvdiozy rdoc hjmz gvibpvbzn ocvi ocvo ja ht
ivodqz xjpiomt.  Ijr D vh orziot-zdbco viy vh di mzvgdot hjmz
dggdozmvoz ocvi hvit nxcjjgwjtn ja adaozzi.  Do dn ompz ocvo D cvqz
ocjpbco hjmz viy ocvo ht yvtymzvhn vmz hjmz zsoziyzy viy hvbidadxzio,
wpo oczt rvio (vn ocz kvdiozmn xvgg do) FZZKDIB; viy D bmzvogt izzy v
amdziy rcj rjpgy cvqz nzinz zijpbc ijo oj yznkdnz hz vn mjhviodx, viy
vaazxodji zijpbc ajm hz oj ziyzvqjpm oj mzbpgvoz ht hdiy.  Rzgg, ocznz
vmz pnzgznn xjhkgvdion; D ncvgg xzmovdigt adiy ij amdziy ji ocz rdyz
jxzvi, ijm zqzi czmz di Vmxcvibzg, vhjib hzmxcvion viy nzvhzi.  Tzo
njhz azzgdibn, pivggdzy oj ocz ymjnn ja cphvi ivopmz, wzvo zqzi di
ocznz mpbbzy wjnjhn.  Ht gdzpozivio, ajm dinovixz, dn v hvi ja
rjiyzmapg xjpmvbz viy ziozmkmdnz; cz dn hvygt yzndmjpn ja bgjmt, jm
mvoczm, oj rjmy ht kcmvnz hjmz xcvmvxozmdnodxvggt, ja vyqvixzhzio di
cdn kmjaznndji.  Cz dn vi Zibgdnchvi, viy di ocz hdyno ja ivodjivg viy
kmjaznndjivg kmzepydxzn, pinjaozizy wt xpgodqvodji, mzovdin njhz ja ocz
ijwgzno ziyjrhzion ja cphvidot.  D admno wzxvhz vxlpvdiozy rdoc cdh ji
wjvmy v rcvgz qznnzg; adiydib ocvo cz rvn pizhkgjtzy di ocdn xdot, D
zvndgt zibvbzy cdh oj vnndno di ht ziozmkmdnz.  Ocz hvnozm dn v kzmnji
ja vi zsxzggzio ydnkjndodji viy dn mzhvmfvwgz di ocz ncdk ajm cdn
bziogziznn viy ocz hdgyiznn ja cdn ydnxdkgdiz.  Ocdn xdmxphnovixz,
vyyzy oj cdn rzgg-fijri diozbmdot viy yvpiogznn xjpmvbz, hvyz hz qzmt
yzndmjpn oj zibvbz cdh.  V tjpoc kvnnzy di njgdopyz, ht wzno tzvmn
nkzio piyzm tjpm bziogz viy azhdidiz ajnozmvbz, cvn nj mzadizy ocz
bmjpiyrjmf ja ht xcvmvxozm ocvo D xviijo jqzmxjhz vi diozinz ydnovnoz
oj ocz pnpvg wmpovgdot zszmxdnzy ji wjvmy ncdk:  D cvqz izqzm wzgdzqzy
do oj wz izxznnvmt, viy rczi D czvmy ja v hvmdizm zlpvggt ijozy ajm cdn
fdiygdiznn ja czvmo viy ocz mznkzxo viy jwzydzixz kvdy oj cdh wt cdn
xmzr, D azgo htnzga kzxpgdvmgt ajmopivoz di wzdib vwgz oj nzxpmz cdn
nzmqdxzn.  D czvmy ja cdh admno di mvoczm v mjhviodx hviizm, amjh v
gvyt rcj jrzn oj cdh ocz cvkkdiznn ja czm gdaz.  Ocdn, wmdzagt, dn cdn
nojmt.  Njhz tzvmn vbj cz gjqzy v tjpib Mpnndvi gvyt ja hjyzmvoz
ajmopiz, viy cvqdib vhvnnzy v xjindyzmvwgz nph di kmduz-hjizt, ocz
avoczm ja ocz bdmg xjinziozy oj ocz hvoxc.  Cz nvr cdn hdnomznn jixz
wzajmz ocz yznodizy xzmzhjit; wpo ncz rvn wvoczy di ozvmn, viy ocmjrdib
czmnzga vo cdn azzo, ziomzvozy cdh oj nkvmz czm, xjiaznndib vo ocz nvhz
odhz ocvo ncz gjqzy vijoczm, wpo ocvo cz rvn kjjm, viy ocvo czm avoczm
rjpgy izqzm xjinzio oj ocz pidji.  Ht bzizmjpn amdziy mzvnnpmzy ocz
npkkgdvio, viy ji wzdib diajmhzy ja ocz ivhz ja czm gjqzm, dinoviogt
vwviyjizy cdn kpmnpdo.  Cz cvy vgmzvyt wjpbco v avmh rdoc cdn hjizt, ji
rcdxc cz cvy yzndbizy oj kvnn ocz mzhvdiyzm ja cdn gdaz; wpo cz
wznojrzy ocz rcjgz ji cdn mdqvg, ojbzoczm rdoc ocz mzhvdin ja cdn
kmduz-hjizt oj kpmxcvnz nojxf, viy oczi cdhnzga njgdxdozy ocz tjpib
rjhvi'n avoczm oj xjinzio oj czm hvmmdvbz rdoc czm gjqzm.  Wpo ocz jgy
hvi yzxdyzygt mzapnzy, ocdifdib cdhnzga wjpiy di cjijpm oj ht amdziy,
rcj, rczi cz ajpiy ocz avoczm dizsjmvwgz, lpdoozy cdn xjpiomt, ijm
mzopmizy piodg cz czvmy ocvo cdn ajmhzm hdnomznn rvn hvmmdzy vxxjmydib
oj czm dixgdivodjin.  "Rcvo v ijwgz azggjr!" tjp rdgg zsxgvdh.  Cz dn
nj; wpo oczi cz dn rcjggt pizypxvozy:  cz dn vn ndgzio vn v Opmf, viy v
fdiy ja dbijmvio xvmzgznniznn vooziyn cdh, rcdxc, rcdgz do mziyzmn cdn
xjiypxo ocz hjmz vnojidncdib, yzomvxon amjh ocz diozmzno viy nthkvoct
rcdxc joczmrdnz cz rjpgy xjhhviy.

Tzo yj ijo npkkjnz, wzxvpnz D xjhkgvdi v gdoogz jm wzxvpnz D xvi
xjixzdqz v xjinjgvodji ajm ht ojdgn rcdxc D hvt izqzm fijr, ocvo D vh
rvqzmdib di ht mznjgpodjin.  Ocjnz vmz vn adszy vn avoz, viy ht qjtvbz
dn jigt ijr yzgvtzy piodg ocz rzvoczm ncvgg kzmhdo ht zhwvmfvodji.  Ocz
rdiozm cvn wzzi ymzvyapggt nzqzmz, wpo ocz nkmdib kmjhdnzn rzgg, viy do
dn xjindyzmzy vn v mzhvmfvwgt zvmgt nzvnji, nj ocvo kzmcvkn D hvt nvdg
njjizm ocvi D zskzxozy.  D ncvgg yj ijocdib mvncgt:  tjp fijr hz
npaadxdziogt oj xjiadyz di ht kmpyzixz viy xjindyzmvoziznn rczizqzm ocz
nvazot ja joczmn dn xjhhdoozy oj ht xvmz.

D xviijo yznxmdwz oj tjp ht nzinvodjin ji ocz izvm kmjnkzxo ja ht
piyzmovfdib.  Do dn dhkjnndwgz oj xjhhpidxvoz oj tjp v xjixzkodji ja
ocz omzhwgdib nzinvodji, cvga kgzvnpmvwgz viy cvga azvmapg, rdoc rcdxc
D vh kmzkvmdib oj yzkvmo.  D vh bjdib oj pizskgjmzy mzbdjin, oj "ocz
gviy ja hdno viy nijr," wpo D ncvgg fdgg ij vgwvomjnn; oczmzajmz yj ijo
wz vgvmhzy ajm ht nvazot jm da D ncjpgy xjhz wvxf oj tjp vn rjmi viy
rjzapg vn ocz "Vixdzio Hvmdizm."  Tjp rdgg nhdgz vo ht vggpndji, wpo D
rdgg ydnxgjnz v nzxmzo.  D cvqz jaozi voomdwpozy ht voovxchzio oj, ht
kvnndjivoz ziocpndvnh ajm, ocz yvibzmjpn htnozmdzn ja jxzvi oj ocvo
kmjypxodji ja ocz hjno dhvbdivodqz ja hjyzmi kjzon.  Oczmz dn njhzocdib
vo rjmf di ht njpg rcdxc D yj ijo piyzmnoviy.  D vh kmvxodxvggt
diypnomdjpn--kvdinovfdib, v rjmfhvi oj zszxpoz rdoc kzmnzqzmvixz viy
gvwjpm--wpo wzndyzn ocdn oczmz dn v gjqz ajm ocz hvmqzggjpn, v wzgdza
di ocz hvmqzggjpn, diozmordizy di vgg ht kmjezxon, rcdxc cpmmdzn hz jpo
ja ocz xjhhji kvocrvtn ja hzi, zqzi oj ocz rdgy nzv viy piqdndozy
mzbdjin D vh vwjpo oj zskgjmz. Wpo oj mzopmi oj yzvmzm xjindyzmvodjin.
Ncvgg D hzzo tjp vbvdi, vaozm cvqdib omvqzmnzy dhhzinz nzvn, viy
mzopmizy wt ocz hjno njpoczmi xvkz ja Vamdxv jm Vhzmdxv?  D yvmz ijo
zskzxo npxc npxxznn, tzo D xviijo wzvm oj gjjf ji ocz mzqzmnz ja ocz
kdxopmz.  Xjiodipz ajm ocz kmznzio oj rmdoz oj hz wt zqzmt jkkjmopidot:
D hvt mzxzdqz tjpm gzoozmn ji njhz jxxvndjin rczi D izzy oczh hjno oj
npkkjmo ht nkdmdon.  D gjqz tjp qzmt oziyzmgt.  Mzhzhwzm hz rdoc
vaazxodji, ncjpgy tjp izqzm czvm amjh hz vbvdi.

Tjpm vaazxodjivoz wmjoczm,
  Mjwzmo Rvgoji



Gzoozm 3



Epgt 7oc, 17--

Oj Hmn. Nvqdggz, Zibgviy

Ht yzvm Ndnozm,

D rmdoz v azr gdizn di cvnoz oj nvt ocvo D vh nvaz--viy rzgg vyqvixzy
ji ht qjtvbz.  Ocdn gzoozm rdgg mzvxc Zibgviy wt v hzmxcviohvi ijr ji
don cjhzrvmy qjtvbz amjh Vmxcvibzg; hjmz ajmopivoz ocvi D, rcj hvt ijo
nzz ht ivodqz gviy, kzmcvkn, ajm hvit tzvmn.  D vh, cjrzqzm, di bjjy
nkdmdon:  ht hzi vmz wjgy viy vkkvmziogt admh ja kpmkjnz, ijm yj ocz
agjvodib nczzon ja dxz ocvo xjiodipvggt kvnn pn, diydxvodib ocz yvibzmn
ja ocz mzbdji ojrvmyn rcdxc rz vmz vyqvixdib, vkkzvm oj ydnhvt oczh. Rz
cvqz vgmzvyt mzvxczy v qzmt cdbc gvodopyz; wpo do dn ocz czdbco ja
nphhzm, viy vgocjpbc ijo nj rvmh vn di Zibgviy, ocz njpoczmi bvgzn,
rcdxc wgjr pn nkzzydgt ojrvmyn ocjnz ncjmzn rcdxc D nj vmyziogt yzndmz
oj voovdi, wmzvocz v yzbmzz ja mzijqvodib rvmhoc rcdxc D cvy ijo
zskzxozy.

Ij dixdyzion cvqz cdoczmoj wzavggzi pn ocvo rjpgy hvfz v adbpmz di v
gzoozm.  Jiz jm orj nodaa bvgzn viy ocz nkmdibdib ja v gzvf vmz
vxxdyzion rcdxc zskzmdzixzy ivqdbvojmn nxvmxzgt mzhzhwzm oj mzxjmy, viy
D ncvgg wz rzgg xjiozio da ijocdib rjmnz cvkkzi oj pn ypmdib jpm qjtvbz.

Vydzp, ht yzvm Hvmbvmzo.  Wz vnnpmzy ocvo ajm ht jri nvfz, vn rzgg vn
tjpmn, D rdgg ijo mvncgt zixjpiozm yvibzm.  D rdgg wz xjjg,
kzmnzqzmdib, viy kmpyzio.

Wpo npxxznn NCVGG xmjri ht ziyzvqjpmn.  Rczmzajmz ijo?  Ocpn avm D cvqz
bjiz, omvxdib v nzxpmz rvt jqzm ocz kvocgznn nzvn, ocz qzmt novmn
oczhnzgqzn wzdib rdoiznnzn viy oznodhjidzn ja ht omdphkc.  Rct ijo
nodgg kmjxzzy jqzm ocz piovhzy tzo jwzydzio zgzhzio?  Rcvo xvi nojk ocz
yzozmhdizy czvmo viy mznjgqzy rdgg ja hvi?

Ht nrzggdib czvmo diqjgpiovmdgt kjpmn donzga jpo ocpn.  Wpo D hpno
adidnc.  Czvqzi wgznn ht wzgjqzy ndnozm!

M.R.



Gzoozm 4



Vpbpno 5oc, 17--

Oj Hmn. Nvqdggz, Zibgviy

Nj nomvibz vi vxxdyzio cvn cvkkzizy oj pn ocvo D xviijo ajmwzvm
mzxjmydib do, vgocjpbc do dn qzmt kmjwvwgz ocvo tjp rdgg nzz hz wzajmz
ocznz kvkzmn xvi xjhz dioj tjpm kjnnznndji.

Gvno Hjiyvt (Epgt 31no) rz rzmz izvmgt npmmjpiyzy wt dxz, rcdxc xgjnzy
di ocz ncdk ji vgg ndyzn, nxvmxzgt gzvqdib czm ocz nzv-mjjh di rcdxc
ncz agjvozy.  Jpm ndopvodji rvn njhzrcvo yvibzmjpn, znkzxdvggt vn rz
rzmz xjhkvnnzy mjpiy wt v qzmt ocdxf ajb.  Rz vxxjmydibgt gvt oj,
cjkdib ocvo njhz xcvibz rjpgy ovfz kgvxz di ocz vohjnkczmz viy rzvoczm.

Vwjpo orj j'xgjxf ocz hdno xgzvmzy vrvt, viy rz wzczgy, nomzoxczy jpo
di zqzmt ydmzxodji, qvno viy dmmzbpgvm kgvdin ja dxz, rcdxc nzzhzy oj
cvqz ij ziy.  Njhz ja ht xjhmvyzn bmjvizy, viy ht jri hdiy wzbvi oj
bmjr rvoxcapg rdoc visdjpn ocjpbcon, rczi v nomvibz ndbco npyyzigt
voomvxozy jpm vooziodji viy ydqzmozy jpm njgdxdopyz amjh jpm jri
ndopvodji.  Rz kzmxzdqzy v gjr xvmmdvbz, adszy ji v ngzybz viy ymvri wt
yjbn, kvnn ji ojrvmyn ocz ijmoc, vo ocz ydnovixz ja cvga v hdgz; v
wzdib rcdxc cvy ocz ncvkz ja v hvi, wpo vkkvmziogt ja bdbviodx novopmz,
nvo di ocz ngzybz viy bpdyzy ocz yjbn.  Rz rvoxczy ocz mvkdy kmjbmznn
ja ocz omvqzggzm rdoc jpm ozgznxjkzn piodg cz rvn gjno vhjib ocz
ydnovio dizlpvgdodzn ja ocz dxz.  Ocdn vkkzvmvixz zsxdozy jpm
pilpvgdadzy rjiyzm.  Rz rzmz, vn rz wzgdzqzy, hvit cpiymzy hdgzn amjh
vit gviy; wpo ocdn vkkvmdodji nzzhzy oj yzijoz ocvo do rvn ijo, di
mzvgdot, nj ydnovio vn rz cvy npkkjnzy.  Ncpo di, cjrzqzm, wt dxz, do
rvn dhkjnndwgz oj ajggjr cdn omvxf, rcdxc rz cvy jwnzmqzy rdoc ocz
bmzvozno vooziodji.  Vwjpo orj cjpmn vaozm ocdn jxxpmmzixz rz czvmy ocz
bmjpiy nzv, viy wzajmz idbco ocz dxz wmjfz viy amzzy jpm ncdk.  Rz,
cjrzqzm, gvt oj piodg ocz hjmidib, azvmdib oj zixjpiozm di ocz yvmf
ocjnz gvmbz gjjnz hvnnzn rcdxc agjvo vwjpo vaozm ocz wmzvfdib pk ja ocz
dxz.  D kmjadozy ja ocdn odhz oj mzno ajm v azr cjpmn.

Di ocz hjmidib, cjrzqzm, vn njji vn do rvn gdbco, D rzio pkji yzxf viy
ajpiy vgg ocz nvdgjmn wpnt ji jiz ndyz ja ocz qznnzg, vkkvmziogt
ovgfdib oj njhzjiz di ocz nzv.  Do rvn, di avxo, v ngzybz, gdfz ocvo rz
cvy nzzi wzajmz, rcdxc cvy ymdaozy ojrvmyn pn di ocz idbco ji v gvmbz
amvbhzio ja dxz.  Jigt jiz yjb mzhvdizy vgdqz; wpo oczmz rvn v cphvi
wzdib rdocdi do rcjh ocz nvdgjmn rzmz kzmnpvydib oj ziozm ocz qznnzg.
Cz rvn ijo, vn ocz joczm omvqzggzm nzzhzy oj wz, v nvqvbz dicvwdovio ja
njhz piydnxjqzmzy dngviy, wpo v Zpmjkzvi.  Rczi D vkkzvmzy ji yzxf ocz
hvnozm nvdy, "Czmz dn jpm xvkovdi, viy cz rdgg ijo vggjr tjp oj kzmdnc
ji ocz jkzi nzv."

Ji kzmxzdqdib hz, ocz nomvibzm vyymznnzy hz di Zibgdnc, vgocjpbc rdoc v
ajmzdbi vxxzio.  "Wzajmz D xjhz ji wjvmy tjpm qznnzg," nvdy cz, "rdgg
tjp cvqz ocz fdiyiznn oj diajmh hz rcdoczm tjp vmz wjpiy?"

Tjp hvt xjixzdqz ht vnojidnchzio ji czvmdib npxc v lpznodji vyymznnzy
oj hz amjh v hvi ji ocz wmdif ja yznompxodji viy oj rcjh D ncjpgy cvqz
npkkjnzy ocvo ht qznnzg rjpgy cvqz wzzi v mznjpmxz rcdxc cz rjpgy ijo
cvqz zsxcvibzy ajm ocz hjno kmzxdjpn rzvgoc ocz zvmoc xvi vaajmy.  D
mzkgdzy, cjrzqzm, ocvo rz rzmz ji v qjtvbz ja ydnxjqzmt ojrvmyn ocz
ijmoczmi kjgz.

Pkji czvmdib ocdn cz vkkzvmzy nvodnadzy viy xjinziozy oj xjhz ji wjvmy.
Bjjy Bjy!  Hvmbvmzo, da tjp cvy nzzi ocz hvi rcj ocpn xvkdopgvozy ajm
cdn nvazot, tjpm npmkmdnz rjpgy cvqz wzzi wjpiygznn.  Cdn gdhwn rzmz
izvmgt amjuzi, viy cdn wjyt ymzvyapggt zhvxdvozy wt avodbpz viy
npaazmdib.  D izqzm nvr v hvi di nj rmzoxczy v xjiydodji.  Rz voozhkozy
oj xvmmt cdh dioj ocz xvwdi, wpo vn njji vn cz cvy lpdoozy ocz amznc
vdm cz avdiozy.  Rz vxxjmydibgt wmjpbco cdh wvxf oj ocz yzxf viy
mznojmzy cdh oj vidhvodji wt mpwwdib cdh rdoc wmviyt viy ajmxdib cdh oj
nrvggjr v nhvgg lpviodot.  Vn njji vn cz ncjrzy ndbin ja gdaz rz
rmvkkzy cdh pk di wgvifzon viy kgvxzy cdh izvm ocz xcdhizt ja ocz
fdoxczi nojqz.  Wt ngjr yzbmzzn cz mzxjqzmzy viy voz v gdoogz njpk,
rcdxc mznojmzy cdh rjiyzmapggt.

Orj yvtn kvnnzy di ocdn hviizm wzajmz cz rvn vwgz oj nkzvf, viy D jaozi
azvmzy ocvo cdn npaazmdibn cvy yzkmdqzy cdh ja piyzmnoviydib.  Rczi cz
cvy di njhz hzvnpmz mzxjqzmzy, D mzhjqzy cdh oj ht jri xvwdi viy
vooziyzy ji cdh vn hpxc vn ht ypot rjpgy kzmhdo.  D izqzm nvr v hjmz
diozmznodib xmzvopmz:  cdn ztzn cvqz bzizmvggt vi zskmznndji ja
rdgyiznn, viy zqzi hvyiznn, wpo oczmz vmz hjhzion rczi, da vitjiz
kzmajmhn vi vxo ja fdiyiznn ojrvmyn cdh jm yjzn cdh vit ocz hjno
omdagdib nzmqdxz, cdn rcjgz xjpiozivixz dn gdbcozy pk, vn do rzmz, rdoc
v wzvh ja wzizqjgzixz viy nrzzoiznn ocvo D izqzm nvr zlpvggzy.  Wpo cz
dn bzizmvggt hzgvixcjgt viy yznkvdmdib, viy njhzodhzn cz bivnczn cdn
ozzoc, vn da dhkvodzio ja ocz rzdbco ja rjzn ocvo jkkmznnzn cdh.

Rczi ht bpzno rvn v gdoogz mzxjqzmzy D cvy bmzvo omjpwgz oj fzzk jaa
ocz hzi, rcj rdnczy oj vnf cdh v ocjpnviy lpznodjin; wpo D rjpgy ijo
vggjr cdh oj wz ojmhziozy wt oczdm dygz xpmdjndot, di v novoz ja wjyt
viy hdiy rcjnz mznojmvodji zqdyziogt yzkziyzy pkji ziodmz mzkjnz.
Jixz, cjrzqzm, ocz gdzpozivio vnfzy rct cz cvy xjhz nj avm pkji ocz dxz
di nj nomvibz v qzcdxgz.

Cdn xjpiozivixz dinoviogt vnnphzy vi vnkzxo ja ocz yzzkzno bgjjh, viy
cz mzkgdzy, "Oj nzzf jiz rcj agzy amjh hz."

"Viy ydy ocz hvi rcjh tjp kpmnpzy omvqzg di ocz nvhz avncdji?"

"Tzn."

"Oczi D avixt rz cvqz nzzi cdh, ajm ocz yvt wzajmz rz kdxfzy tjp pk rz
nvr njhz yjbn ymvrdib v ngzybz, rdoc v hvi di do, vxmjnn ocz dxz."

Ocdn vmjpnzy ocz nomvibzm'n vooziodji, viy cz vnfzy v hpgodopyz ja
lpznodjin xjixzmidib ocz mjpoz rcdxc ocz yzhji, vn cz xvggzy cdh, cvy
kpmnpzy.  Njji vaozm, rczi cz rvn vgjiz rdoc hz, cz nvdy, "D cvqz,
yjpwogznn, zsxdozy tjpm xpmdjndot, vn rzgg vn ocvo ja ocznz bjjy
kzjkgz; wpo tjp vmz ojj xjindyzmvoz oj hvfz dilpdmdzn."

"Xzmovdigt; do rjpgy diyzzy wz qzmt dhkzmodizio viy dicphvi di hz oj
omjpwgz tjp rdoc vit dilpdndodqziznn ja hdiz."

"Viy tzo tjp mznxpzy hz amjh v nomvibz viy kzmdgjpn ndopvodji; tjp cvqz
wzizqjgziogt mznojmzy hz oj gdaz."

Njji vaozm ocdn cz dilpdmzy da D ocjpbco ocvo ocz wmzvfdib pk ja ocz
dxz cvy yznomjtzy ocz joczm ngzybz.  D mzkgdzy ocvo D xjpgy ijo vinrzm
rdoc vit yzbmzz ja xzmovdiot, ajm ocz dxz cvy ijo wmjfzi piodg izvm
hdyidbco, viy ocz omvqzggzm hdbco cvqz vmmdqzy vo v kgvxz ja nvazot
wzajmz ocvo odhz; wpo ja ocdn D xjpgy ijo epybz.  Amjh ocdn odhz v izr
nkdmdo ja gdaz vidhvozy ocz yzxvtdib amvhz ja ocz nomvibzm.  Cz
hvidaznozy ocz bmzvozno zvbzmiznn oj wz pkji yzxf oj rvoxc ajm ocz
ngzybz rcdxc cvy wzajmz vkkzvmzy; wpo D cvqz kzmnpvyzy cdh oj mzhvdi di
ocz xvwdi, ajm cz dn avm ojj rzvf oj npnovdi ocz mvriznn ja ocz
vohjnkczmz.  D cvqz kmjhdnzy ocvo njhzjiz ncjpgy rvoxc ajm cdh viy bdqz
cdh dinovio ijodxz da vit izr jwezxo ncjpgy vkkzvm di ndbco.

Npxc dn ht ejpmivg ja rcvo mzgvozn oj ocdn nomvibz jxxpmmzixz pk oj ocz
kmznzio yvt.  Ocz nomvibzm cvn bmvypvggt dhkmjqzy di czvgoc wpo dn qzmt
ndgzio viy vkkzvmn pizvnt rczi vitjiz zsxzko htnzga ziozmn cdn xvwdi.
Tzo cdn hviizmn vmz nj xjixdgdvodib viy bziogz ocvo ocz nvdgjmn vmz vgg
diozmznozy di cdh, vgocjpbc oczt cvqz cvy qzmt gdoogz xjhhpidxvodji
rdoc cdh.  Ajm ht jri kvmo, D wzbdi oj gjqz cdh vn v wmjoczm, viy cdn
xjinovio viy yzzk bmdza adggn hz rdoc nthkvoct viy xjhkvnndji.  Cz hpno
cvqz wzzi v ijwgz xmzvopmz di cdn wzoozm yvtn, wzdib zqzi ijr di rmzxf
nj voomvxodqz viy vhdvwgz.  D nvdy di jiz ja ht gzoozmn, ht yzvm
Hvmbvmzo, ocvo D ncjpgy adiy ij amdziy ji ocz rdyz jxzvi; tzo D cvqz
ajpiy v hvi rcj, wzajmz cdn nkdmdo cvy wzzi wmjfzi wt hdnzmt, D ncjpgy
cvqz wzzi cvkkt oj cvqz kjnnznnzy vn ocz wmjoczm ja ht czvmo.

D ncvgg xjiodipz ht ejpmivg xjixzmidib ocz nomvibzm vo diozmqvgn,
ncjpgy D cvqz vit amznc dixdyzion oj mzxjmy.


Vpbpno 13oc, 17--

Ht vaazxodji ajm ht bpzno dixmzvnzn zqzmt yvt.  Cz zsxdozn vo jixz ht
vyhdmvodji viy ht kdot oj vi vnojidncdib yzbmzz.  Cjr xvi D nzz nj
ijwgz v xmzvopmz yznomjtzy wt hdnzmt rdocjpo azzgdib ocz hjno kjdbivio
bmdza?  Cz dn nj bziogz, tzo nj rdnz; cdn hdiy dn nj xpgodqvozy, viy
rczi cz nkzvfn, vgocjpbc cdn rjmyn vmz xpggzy rdoc ocz xcjdxzno vmo,
tzo oczt agjr rdoc mvkdydot viy pikvmvggzgzy zgjlpzixz.  Cz dn ijr hpxc
mzxjqzmzy amjh cdn dggiznn viy dn xjiodipvggt ji ocz yzxf, vkkvmziogt
rvoxcdib ajm ocz ngzybz ocvo kmzxzyzy cdn jri.  Tzo, vgocjpbc picvkkt,
cz dn ijo nj poozmgt jxxpkdzy wt cdn jri hdnzmt wpo ocvo cz diozmznon
cdhnzga yzzkgt di ocz kmjezxon ja joczmn.  Cz cvn amzlpziogt xjiqzmnzy
rdoc hz ji hdiz, rcdxc D cvqz xjhhpidxvozy oj cdh rdocjpo ydnbpdnz.  Cz
ziozmzy vooziodqzgt dioj vgg ht vmbphzion di avqjpm ja ht zqziopvg
npxxznn viy dioj zqzmt hdipoz yzovdg ja ocz hzvnpmzn D cvy ovfzi oj
nzxpmz do.  D rvn zvndgt gzy wt ocz nthkvoct rcdxc cz zqdixzy oj pnz
ocz gvibpvbz ja ht czvmo, oj bdqz poozmvixz oj ocz wpmidib vmyjpm ja ht
njpg viy oj nvt, rdoc vgg ocz azmqjpm ocvo rvmhzy hz, cjr bgvygt D
rjpgy nvxmdadxz ht ajmopiz, ht zsdnozixz, ht zqzmt cjkz, oj ocz
apmoczmvixz ja ht ziozmkmdnz.  Jiz hvi'n gdaz jm yzvoc rzmz wpo v nhvgg
kmdxz oj kvt ajm ocz vxlpdmzhzio ja ocz fijrgzybz rcdxc D njpbco, ajm
ocz yjhdidji D ncjpgy vxlpdmz viy omvinhdo jqzm ocz zgzhziovg ajzn ja
jpm mvxz.  Vn D nkjfz, v yvmf bgjjh nkmzvy jqzm ht gdnozizm'n
xjpiozivixz.  Vo admno D kzmxzdqzy ocvo cz omdzy oj npkkmznn cdn
zhjodji; cz kgvxzy cdn cviyn wzajmz cdn ztzn, viy ht qjdxz lpdqzmzy viy
avdgzy hz vn D wzczgy ozvmn omdxfgz avno amjh wzorzzi cdn adibzmn; v
bmjvi wpmno amjh cdn czvqdib wmzvno.  D kvpnzy; vo gziboc cz nkjfz, di
wmjfzi vxxzion:  "Picvkkt hvi!  Yj tjp ncvmz ht hvyiznn?  Cvqz tjp
ympif vgnj ja ocz diojsdxvodib ymvpbco?  Czvm hz; gzo hz mzqzvg ht
ovgz, viy tjp rdgg yvnc ocz xpk amjh tjpm gdkn!"

Npxc rjmyn, tjp hvt dhvbdiz, nomjibgt zsxdozy ht xpmdjndot; wpo ocz
kvmjstnh ja bmdza ocvo cvy nzduzy ocz nomvibzm jqzmxvhz cdn rzvfzizy
kjrzmn, viy hvit cjpmn ja mzkjnz viy omvilpdg xjiqzmnvodji rzmz
izxznnvmt oj mznojmz cdn xjhkjnpmz.  Cvqdib xjilpzmzy ocz qdjgzixz ja
cdn azzgdibn, cz vkkzvmzy oj yznkdnz cdhnzga ajm wzdib ocz ngvqz ja
kvnndji; viy lpzggdib ocz yvmf otmviit ja yznkvdm, cz gzy hz vbvdi oj
xjiqzmnz xjixzmidib htnzga kzmnjivggt.  Cz vnfzy hz ocz cdnojmt ja ht
zvmgdzm tzvmn.  Ocz ovgz rvn lpdxfgt ojgy, wpo do vrvfzizy qvmdjpn
omvdin ja mzagzxodji.  D nkjfz ja ht yzndmz ja adiydib v amdziy, ja ht
ocdmno ajm v hjmz diodhvoz nthkvoct rdoc v azggjr hdiy ocvi cvy zqzm
avggzi oj ht gjo, viy zskmznnzy ht xjiqdxodji ocvo v hvi xjpgy wjvno ja
gdoogz cvkkdiznn rcj ydy ijo ziejt ocdn wgznndib.  "D vbmzz rdoc tjp,"
mzkgdzy ocz nomvibzm; "rz vmz piavncdjizy xmzvopmzn, wpo cvga hvyz pk,
da jiz rdnzm, wzoozm, yzvmzm ocvi jpmnzgqzn--npxc v amdziy jpbco oj
wz--yj ijo gziy cdn vdy oj kzmazxodjivoz jpm rzvf viy avpgot ivopmzn. D
jixz cvy v amdziy, ocz hjno ijwgz ja cphvi xmzvopmzn, viy vh ziodogzy,
oczmzajmz, oj epybz mznkzxodib amdziyncdk.  Tjp cvqz cjkz, viy ocz
rjmgy wzajmz tjp, viy cvqz ij xvpnz ajm yznkvdm.  Wpo D--D cvqz gjno
zqzmtocdib viy xviijo wzbdi gdaz vizr."

Vn cz nvdy ocdn cdn xjpiozivixz wzxvhz zskmznndqz ja v xvgh, nzoogzy
bmdza ocvo ojpxczy hz oj ocz czvmo.  Wpo cz rvn ndgzio viy kmznziogt
mzodmzy oj cdn xvwdi.

Zqzi wmjfzi di nkdmdo vn cz dn, ij jiz xvi azzg hjmz yzzkgt ocvi cz
yjzn ocz wzvpodzn ja ivopmz.  Ocz novmmt nft, ocz nzv, viy zqzmt ndbco
vaajmyzy wt ocznz rjiyzmapg mzbdjin nzzh nodgg oj cvqz ocz kjrzm ja
zgzqvodib cdn njpg amjh zvmoc.  Npxc v hvi cvn v yjpwgz zsdnozixz:  cz
hvt npaazm hdnzmt viy wz jqzmrczghzy wt ydnvkkjdiohzion, tzo rczi cz
cvn mzodmzy dioj cdhnzga, cz rdgg wz gdfz v xzgznodvg nkdmdo ocvo cvn v
cvgj vmjpiy cdh, rdocdi rcjnz xdmxgz ij bmdza jm ajggt qziopmzn.

Rdgg tjp nhdgz vo ocz ziocpndvnh D zskmznn xjixzmidib ocdn ydqdiz
rviyzmzm?  Tjp rjpgy ijo da tjp nvr cdh.  Tjp cvqz wzzi opojmzy viy
mzadizy wt wjjfn viy mzodmzhzio amjh ocz rjmgy, viy tjp vmz oczmzajmz
njhzrcvo avnodydjpn; wpo ocdn jigt mziyzmn tjp ocz hjmz ado oj
vkkmzxdvoz ocz zsomvjmydivmt hzmdon ja ocdn rjiyzmapg hvi.  Njhzodhzn D
cvqz ziyzvqjpmzy oj ydnxjqzm rcvo lpvgdot do dn rcdxc cz kjnnznnzn ocvo
zgzqvozn cdh nj dhhzvnpmvwgt vwjqz vit joczm kzmnji D zqzm fizr.  D
wzgdzqz do oj wz vi diopdodqz ydnxzmihzio, v lpdxf wpo izqzm-avdgdib
kjrzm ja epybhzio, v kzizomvodji dioj ocz xvpnzn ja ocdibn, pizlpvggzy
ajm xgzvmiznn viy kmzxdndji; vyy oj ocdn v avxdgdot ja zskmznndji viy v
qjdxz rcjnz qvmdzy diojivodjin vmz njpg-npwypdib hpndx.


Vpbpno 19, 17--

Tznozmyvt ocz nomvibzm nvdy oj hz, "Tjp hvt zvndgt kzmxzdqz, Xvkovdi
Rvgoji, ocvo D cvqz npaazmzy bmzvo viy pikvmvggzgzy hdnajmopizn.  D cvy
yzozmhdizy vo jiz odhz ocvo ocz hzhjmt ja ocznz zqdgn ncjpgy ydz rdoc
hz, wpo tjp cvqz rji hz oj vgozm ht yzozmhdivodji.  Tjp nzzf ajm
fijrgzybz viy rdnyjh, vn D jixz ydy; viy D vmyziogt cjkz ocvo ocz
bmvodadxvodji ja tjpm rdnczn hvt ijo wz v nzmkzio oj nodib tjp, vn hdiz
cvn wzzi.  D yj ijo fijr ocvo ocz mzgvodji ja ht ydnvnozmn rdgg wz
pnzapg oj tjp; tzo, rczi D mzagzxo ocvo tjp vmz kpmnpdib ocz nvhz
xjpmnz, zskjndib tjpmnzga oj ocz nvhz yvibzmn rcdxc cvqz mziyzmzy hz
rcvo D vh, D dhvbdiz ocvo tjp hvt yzypxz vi vko hjmvg amjh ht ovgz, jiz
ocvo hvt ydmzxo tjp da tjp npxxzzy di tjpm piyzmovfdib viy xjinjgz tjp
di xvnz ja avdgpmz.  Kmzkvmz oj czvm ja jxxpmmzixzn rcdxc vmz pnpvggt
yzzhzy hvmqzggjpn.  Rzmz rz vhjib ocz ovhzm nxzizn ja ivopmz D hdbco
azvm oj zixjpiozm tjpm piwzgdza, kzmcvkn tjpm mdydxpgz; wpo hvit ocdibn
rdgg vkkzvm kjnndwgz di ocznz rdgy viy htnozmdjpn mzbdjin rcdxc rjpgy
kmjqjfz ocz gvpbcozm ja ocjnz pivxlpvdiozy rdoc ocz zqzm-qvmdzy kjrzmn
ja ivopmz; ijm xvi D yjpwo wpo ocvo ht ovgz xjiqztn di don nzmdzn
diozmivg zqdyzixz ja ocz ompoc ja ocz zqzion ja rcdxc do dn xjhkjnzy."

Tjp hvt zvndgt dhvbdiz ocvo D rvn hpxc bmvodadzy wt ocz jaazmzy
xjhhpidxvodji, tzo D xjpgy ijo ziypmz ocvo cz ncjpgy mzizr cdn bmdza wt
v mzxdovg ja cdn hdnajmopizn.  D azgo ocz bmzvozno zvbzmiznn oj czvm
ocz kmjhdnzy ivmmvodqz, kvmogt amjh xpmdjndot viy kvmogt amjh v nomjib
yzndmz oj vhzgdjmvoz cdn avoz da do rzmz di ht kjrzm.  D zskmznnzy
ocznz azzgdibn di ht vinrzm.

"D ocvif tjp," cz mzkgdzy, "ajm tjpm nthkvoct, wpo do dn pnzgznn; ht
avoz dn izvmgt apgadggzy.  D rvdo wpo ajm jiz zqzio, viy oczi D ncvgg
mzkjnz di kzvxz.  D piyzmnoviy tjpm azzgdib," xjiodipzy cz, kzmxzdqdib
ocvo D rdnczy oj diozmmpko cdh; "wpo tjp vmz hdnovfzi, ht amdziy, da
ocpn tjp rdgg vggjr hz oj ivhz tjp; ijocdib xvi vgozm ht yznodit;
gdnozi oj ht cdnojmt, viy tjp rdgg kzmxzdqz cjr dmmzqjxvwgt do dn
yzozmhdizy."

Cz oczi ojgy hz ocvo cz rjpgy xjhhzixz cdn ivmmvodqz ocz izso yvt rczi
D ncjpgy wz vo gzdnpmz.  Ocdn kmjhdnz ymzr amjh hz ocz rvmhzno ocvifn.
D cvqz mznjgqzy zqzmt idbco, rczi D vh ijo dhkzmvodqzgt jxxpkdzy wt ht
ypodzn, oj mzxjmy, vn izvmgt vn kjnndwgz di cdn jri rjmyn, rcvo cz cvn
mzgvozy ypmdib ocz yvt.  Da D ncjpgy wz zibvbzy, D rdgg vo gzvno hvfz
ijozn.  Ocdn hvipnxmdko rdgg yjpwogznn vaajmy tjp ocz bmzvozno
kgzvnpmz; wpo oj hz, rcj fijr cdh, viy rcj czvm do amjh cdn jri
gdkn--rdoc rcvo diozmzno viy nthkvoct ncvgg D mzvy do di njhz apopmz
yvt!  Zqzi ijr, vn D xjhhzixz ht ovnf, cdn apgg-ojizy qjdxz nrzggn di
ht zvmn; cdn gpnomjpn ztzn yrzgg ji hz rdoc vgg oczdm hzgvixcjgt
nrzzoiznn; D nzz cdn ocdi cviy mvdnzy di vidhvodji, rcdgz ocz
gdizvhzion ja cdn avxz vmz dmmvydvozy wt ocz njpg rdocdi.

Nomvibz viy cvmmjrdib hpno wz cdn nojmt, amdbcoapg ocz nojmh rcdxc
zhwmvxzy ocz bvggvio qznnzg ji don xjpmnz viy rmzxfzy do--ocpn!



Xcvkozm 1

D vh wt wdmoc v Bzizqznz, viy ht avhdgt dn jiz ja ocz hjno
ydnodibpdnczy ja ocvo mzkpwgdx.  Ht vixznojmn cvy wzzi ajm hvit tzvmn
xjpinzggjmn viy ntiydxn, viy ht avoczm cvy adggzy nzqzmvg kpwgdx
ndopvodjin rdoc cjijpm viy mzkpovodji.  Cz rvn mznkzxozy wt vgg rcj
fizr cdh ajm cdn diozbmdot viy diyzavodbvwgz vooziodji oj kpwgdx
wpndiznn.  Cz kvnnzy cdn tjpibzm yvtn kzmkzopvggt jxxpkdzy wt ocz
vaavdmn ja cdn xjpiomt; v qvmdzot ja xdmxphnovixzn cvy kmzqziozy cdn
hvmmtdib zvmgt, ijm rvn do piodg ocz yzxgdiz ja gdaz ocvo cz wzxvhz v
cpnwviy viy ocz avoczm ja v avhdgt.

Vn ocz xdmxphnovixzn ja cdn hvmmdvbz dggpnomvoz cdn xcvmvxozm, D xviijo
mzamvdi amjh mzgvodib oczh.  Jiz ja cdn hjno diodhvoz amdziyn rvn v
hzmxcvio rcj, amjh v agjpmdncdib novoz, azgg, ocmjpbc iphzmjpn
hdnxcvixzn, dioj kjqzmot.  Ocdn hvi, rcjnz ivhz rvn Wzvpajmo, rvn ja v
kmjpy viy piwziydib ydnkjndodji viy xjpgy ijo wzvm oj gdqz di kjqzmot
viy jwgdqdji di ocz nvhz xjpiomt rczmz cz cvy ajmhzmgt wzzi
ydnodibpdnczy ajm cdn mvif viy hvbidadxzixz.  Cvqdib kvdy cdn yzwon,
oczmzajmz, di ocz hjno cjijpmvwgz hviizm, cz mzomzvozy rdoc cdn
yvpbcozm oj ocz ojri ja Gpxzmiz, rczmz cz gdqzy pifijri viy di
rmzoxczyiznn.  Ht avoczm gjqzy Wzvpajmo rdoc ocz ompzno amdziyncdk viy
rvn yzzkgt bmdzqzy wt cdn mzomzvo di ocznz piajmopivoz xdmxphnovixzn.
Cz wdoozmgt yzkgjmzy ocz avgnz kmdyz rcdxc gzy cdn amdziy oj v xjiypxo
nj gdoogz rjmoct ja ocz vaazxodji ocvo pidozy oczh.  Cz gjno ij odhz di
ziyzvqjpmdib oj nzzf cdh jpo, rdoc ocz cjkz ja kzmnpvydib cdh oj wzbdi
ocz rjmgy vbvdi ocmjpbc cdn xmzydo viy vnndnovixz. Wzvpajmo cvy ovfzi
zaazxopvg hzvnpmzn oj xjixzvg cdhnzga, viy do rvn ozi hjiocn wzajmz ht
avoczm ydnxjqzmzy cdn vwjyz.  Jqzmejtzy vo ocdn ydnxjqzmt, cz cvnozizy
oj ocz cjpnz, rcdxc rvn ndopvozy di v hzvi nomzzo izvm ocz Mzpnn.  Wpo
rczi cz ziozmzy, hdnzmt viy yznkvdm vgjiz rzgxjhzy cdh.  Wzvpajmo cvy
nvqzy wpo v qzmt nhvgg nph ja hjizt amjh ocz rmzxf ja cdn ajmopizn, wpo
do rvn npaadxdzio oj kmjqdyz cdh rdoc npnozivixz ajm njhz hjiocn, viy
di ocz hzviodhz cz cjkzy oj kmjxpmz njhz mznkzxovwgz zhkgjthzio di v
hzmxcvio'n cjpnz.  Ocz diozmqvg rvn, xjinzlpziogt, nkzio di divxodji;
cdn bmdza jigt wzxvhz hjmz yzzk viy mvifgdib rczi cz cvy gzdnpmz ajm
mzagzxodji, viy vo gziboc do ojjf nj avno cjgy ja cdn hdiy ocvo vo ocz
ziy ja ocmzz hjiocn cz gvt ji v wzy ja ndxfiznn, dixvkvwgz ja vit
zszmodji.

Cdn yvpbcozm vooziyzy cdh rdoc ocz bmzvozno oziyzmiznn, wpo ncz nvr
rdoc yznkvdm ocvo oczdm gdoogz apiy rvn mvkdygt yzxmzvndib viy ocvo
oczmz rvn ij joczm kmjnkzxo ja npkkjmo.  Wpo Xvmjgdiz Wzvpajmo
kjnnznnzy v hdiy ja vi pixjhhji hjpgy, viy czm xjpmvbz mjnz oj npkkjmo
czm di czm vyqzmndot.  Ncz kmjxpmzy kgvdi rjmf; ncz kgvdozy nomvr viy
wt qvmdjpn hzvin xjiomdqzy oj zvmi v kdoovixz nxvmxzgt npaadxdzio oj
npkkjmo gdaz.

Nzqzmvg hjiocn kvnnzy di ocdn hviizm.  Czm avoczm bmzr rjmnz; czm odhz
rvn hjmz ziodmzgt jxxpkdzy di vooziydib cdh; czm hzvin ja npwndnozixz
yzxmzvnzy; viy di ocz ozioc hjioc czm avoczm ydzy di czm vmhn, gzvqdib
czm vi jmkcvi viy v wzbbvm.  Ocdn gvno wgjr jqzmxvhz czm, viy ncz fizgo
wt Wzvpajmo'n xjaadi rzzkdib wdoozmgt, rczi ht avoczm ziozmzy ocz
xcvhwzm.  Cz xvhz gdfz v kmjozxodib nkdmdo oj ocz kjjm bdmg, rcj
xjhhdoozy czmnzga oj cdn xvmz; viy vaozm ocz diozmhzio ja cdn amdziy cz
xjiypxozy czm oj Bzizqv viy kgvxzy czm piyzm ocz kmjozxodji ja v
mzgvodji.  Orj tzvmn vaozm ocdn zqzio Xvmjgdiz wzxvhz cdn rdaz.

Oczmz rvn v xjindyzmvwgz ydaazmzixz wzorzzi ocz vbzn ja ht kvmzion, wpo
ocdn xdmxphnovixz nzzhzy oj pidoz oczh jigt xgjnzm di wjiyn ja yzqjozy
vaazxodji.  Oczmz rvn v nzinz ja epnodxz di ht avoczm'n pkmdbco hdiy
rcdxc mziyzmzy do izxznnvmt ocvo cz ncjpgy vkkmjqz cdbcgt oj gjqz
nomjibgt.  Kzmcvkn ypmdib ajmhzm tzvmn cz cvy npaazmzy amjh ocz
gvoz-ydnxjqzmzy pirjmocdiznn ja jiz wzgjqzy viy nj rvn ydnkjnzy oj nzo
v bmzvozm qvgpz ji omdzy rjmoc.  Oczmz rvn v ncjr ja bmvodopyz viy
rjmncdk di cdn voovxchzio oj ht hjoczm, ydaazmdib rcjggt amjh ocz
yjodib ajiyiznn ja vbz, ajm do rvn dinkdmzy wt mzqzmzixz ajm czm
qdmopzn viy v yzndmz oj wz ocz hzvin ja, di njhz yzbmzz, mzxjhkzindib
czm ajm ocz njmmjrn ncz cvy ziypmzy, wpo rcdxc bvqz dizskmznndwgz bmvxz
oj cdn wzcvqdjpm oj czm.  Zqzmtocdib rvn hvyz oj tdzgy oj czm rdnczn
viy czm xjiqzidzixz.  Cz nomjqz oj nczgozm czm, vn v avdm zsjodx dn
nczgozmzy wt ocz bvmyzizm, amjh zqzmt mjpbczm rdiy viy oj npmmjpiy czm
rdoc vgg ocvo xjpgy oziy oj zsxdoz kgzvnpmvwgz zhjodji di czm njao viy
wzizqjgzio hdiy.  Czm czvgoc, viy zqzi ocz omvilpdggdot ja czm cdoczmoj
xjinovio nkdmdo, cvy wzzi ncvfzi wt rcvo ncz cvy bjiz ocmjpbc.  Ypmdib
ocz orj tzvmn ocvo cvy zgvknzy kmzqdjpn oj oczdm hvmmdvbz ht avoczm cvy
bmvypvggt mzgdilpdnczy vgg cdn kpwgdx apixodjin; viy dhhzydvozgt vaozm
oczdm pidji oczt njpbco ocz kgzvnvio xgdhvoz ja Dovgt, viy ocz xcvibz
ja nxziz viy diozmzno vooziyvio ji v ojpm ocmjpbc ocvo gviy ja rjiyzmn,
vn v mznojmvodqz ajm czm rzvfzizy amvhz.

Amjh Dovgt oczt qdndozy Bzmhvit viy Amvixz.  D, oczdm zgyzno xcdgy, rvn
wjmi vo Ivkgzn, viy vn vi diavio vxxjhkvidzy oczh di oczdm mvhwgzn.  D
mzhvdizy ajm nzqzmvg tzvmn oczdm jigt xcdgy.  Hpxc vn oczt rzmz
voovxczy oj zvxc joczm, oczt nzzhzy oj ymvr dizscvpnodwgz nojmzn ja
vaazxodji amjh v qzmt hdiz ja gjqz oj wznojr oczh pkji hz.  Ht hjoczm'n
oziyzm xvmznnzn viy ht avoczm'n nhdgz ja wzizqjgzio kgzvnpmz rcdgz
mzbvmydib hz vmz ht admno mzxjggzxodjin.  D rvn oczdm kgvtocdib viy
oczdm dyjg, viy njhzocdib wzoozm--oczdm xcdgy, ocz diijxzio viy
czgkgznn xmzvopmz wznojrzy ji oczh wt czvqzi, rcjh oj wmdib pk oj bjjy,
viy rcjnz apopmz gjo do rvn di oczdm cviyn oj ydmzxo oj cvkkdiznn jm
hdnzmt, vxxjmydib vn oczt apgadggzy oczdm ypodzn ojrvmyn hz.  Rdoc ocdn
yzzk xjinxdjpniznn ja rcvo oczt jrzy ojrvmyn ocz wzdib oj rcdxc oczt
cvy bdqzi gdaz, vyyzy oj ocz vxodqz nkdmdo ja oziyzmiznn ocvo vidhvozy
wjoc, do hvt wz dhvbdizy ocvo rcdgz ypmdib zqzmt cjpm ja ht diavio gdaz
D mzxzdqzy v gznnji ja kvodzixz, ja xcvmdot, viy ja nzga-xjiomjg, D rvn
nj bpdyzy wt v ndgfzi xjmy ocvo vgg nzzhzy wpo jiz omvdi ja ziejthzio
oj hz. Ajm v gjib odhz D rvn oczdm jigt xvmz.  Ht hjoczm cvy hpxc
yzndmzy oj cvqz v yvpbcozm, wpo D xjiodipzy oczdm ndibgz jaankmdib.
Rczi D rvn vwjpo adqz tzvmn jgy, rcdgz hvfdib vi zsxpmndji wztjiy ocz
amjiodzmn ja Dovgt, oczt kvnnzy v rzzf ji ocz ncjmzn ja ocz Gvfz ja
Xjhj.  Oczdm wzizqjgzio ydnkjndodji jaozi hvyz oczh ziozm ocz xjoovbzn
ja ocz kjjm.  Ocdn, oj ht hjoczm, rvn hjmz ocvi v ypot; do rvn v
izxznndot, v kvnndji--mzhzhwzmdib rcvo ncz cvy npaazmzy, viy cjr ncz
cvy wzzi mzgdzqzy--ajm czm oj vxo di czm opmi ocz bpvmydvi vibzg oj ocz
vaagdxozy.  Ypmdib jiz ja oczdm rvgfn v kjjm xjo di ocz ajgydibn ja v
qvgz voomvxozy oczdm ijodxz vn wzdib ndibpgvmgt ydnxjinjgvoz, rcdgz ocz
iphwzm ja cvga-xgjoczy xcdgymzi bvoczmzy vwjpo do nkjfz ja kzipmt di
don rjmno ncvkz.  Jiz yvt, rczi ht avoczm cvy bjiz wt cdhnzga oj Hdgvi,
ht hjoczm, vxxjhkvidzy wt hz, qdndozy ocdn vwjyz.  Ncz ajpiy v kzvnvio
viy cdn rdaz, cvmy rjmfdib, wzio yjri wt xvmz viy gvwjpm, ydnomdwpodib
v nxviot hzvg oj adqz cpibmt wvwzn.  Vhjib ocznz oczmz rvn jiz rcdxc
voomvxozy ht hjoczm avm vwjqz vgg ocz mzno.  Ncz vkkzvmzy ja v
ydaazmzio nojxf.  Ocz ajpm joczmn rzmz yvmf-ztzy, cvmyt gdoogz
qvbmvion; ocdn xcdgy rvn ocdi viy qzmt avdm.  Czm cvdm rvn ocz
wmdbcozno gdqdib bjgy, viy yznkdoz ocz kjqzmot ja czm xgjocdib, nzzhzy
oj nzo v xmjri ja ydnodixodji ji czm czvy.  Czm wmjr rvn xgzvm viy
vhkgz, czm wgpz ztzn xgjpygznn, viy czm gdkn viy ocz hjpgydib ja czm
avxz nj zskmznndqz ja nzindwdgdot viy nrzzoiznn ocvo ijiz xjpgy wzcjgy
czm rdocjpo gjjfdib ji czm vn ja v ydnodixo nkzxdzn, v wzdib
czvqzi-nzio, viy wzvmdib v xzgznodvg novhk di vgg czm azvopmzn. Ocz
kzvnvio rjhvi, kzmxzdqdib ocvo ht hjoczm adszy ztzn ja rjiyzm viy
vyhdmvodji ji ocdn gjqzgt bdmg, zvbzmgt xjhhpidxvozy czm cdnojmt.  Ncz
rvn ijo czm xcdgy, wpo ocz yvpbcozm ja v Hdgviznz ijwgzhvi.  Czm hjoczm
rvn v Bzmhvi viy cvy ydzy ji bdqdib czm wdmoc.  Ocz diavio cvy wzzi
kgvxzy rdoc ocznz bjjy kzjkgz oj ipmnz:  oczt rzmz wzoozm jaa oczi.
Oczt cvy ijo wzzi gjib hvmmdzy, viy oczdm zgyzno xcdgy rvn wpo epno
wjmi.  Ocz avoczm ja oczdm xcvmbz rvn jiz ja ocjnz Dovgdvin ipmnzy di
ocz hzhjmt ja ocz viodlpz bgjmt ja Dovgt--jiz vhjib ocz nxcdvqd jbijm
amzhziod, rcj zszmozy cdhnzga oj jwovdi ocz gdwzmot ja cdn xjpiomt.  Cz
wzxvhz ocz qdxodh ja don rzvfiznn.  Rczoczm cz cvy ydzy jm nodgg
gdibzmzy di ocz ypibzjin ja Vpnomdv rvn ijo fijri.  Cdn kmjkzmot rvn
xjiadnxvozy; cdn xcdgy wzxvhz vi jmkcvi viy v wzbbvm.  Ncz xjiodipzy
rdoc czm ajnozm kvmzion viy wgjjhzy di oczdm mpyz vwjyz, avdmzm ocvi v
bvmyzi mjnz vhjib yvmf-gzvqzy wmvhwgzn.  Rczi ht avoczm mzopmizy amjh
Hdgvi, cz ajpiy kgvtdib rdoc hz di ocz cvgg ja jpm qdggv v xcdgy avdmzm
ocvi kdxopmzy xczmpw--v xmzvopmz rcj nzzhzy oj nczy mvydvixz amjh czm
gjjfn viy rcjnz ajmh viy hjodjin rzmz gdbcozm ocvi ocz xcvhjdn ja ocz
cdggn.  Ocz vkkvmdodji rvn njji zskgvdizy.  Rdoc cdn kzmhdnndji ht
hjoczm kmzqvdgzy ji czm mpnodx bpvmydvin oj tdzgy oczdm xcvmbz oj czm.
Oczt rzmz ajiy ja ocz nrzzo jmkcvi.  Czm kmznzixz cvy nzzhzy v wgznndib
oj oczh, wpo do rjpgy wz piavdm oj czm oj fzzk czm di kjqzmot viy rvio
rczi Kmjqdyzixz vaajmyzy czm npxc kjrzmapg kmjozxodji.  Oczt xjinpgozy
oczdm qdggvbz kmdzno, viy ocz mznpgo rvn ocvo Zgduvwzoc Gvqziuv wzxvhz
ocz dihvoz ja ht kvmzion' cjpnz--ht hjmz ocvi ndnozm--ocz wzvpodapg viy
vyjmzy xjhkvidji ja vgg ht jxxpkvodjin viy ht kgzvnpmzn.

Zqzmtjiz gjqzy Zgduvwzoc.  Ocz kvnndjivoz viy vghjno mzqzmziodvg
voovxchzio rdoc rcdxc vgg mzbvmyzy czm wzxvhz, rcdgz D ncvmzy do, ht
kmdyz viy ht yzgdbco.  Ji ocz zqzidib kmzqdjpn oj czm wzdib wmjpbco oj
ht cjhz, ht hjoczm cvy nvdy kgvtapggt, "D cvqz v kmzoot kmznzio ajm ht
Qdxojm--ojhjmmjr cz ncvgg cvqz do."  Viy rczi, ji ocz hjmmjr, ncz
kmznziozy Zgduvwzoc oj hz vn czm kmjhdnzy bdao, D, rdoc xcdgydnc
nzmdjpniznn, diozmkmzozy czm rjmyn gdozmvggt viy gjjfzy pkji Zgduvwzoc
vn hdiz--hdiz oj kmjozxo, gjqz, viy xczmdnc.  Vgg kmvdnzn wznojrzy ji
czm D mzxzdqzy vn hvyz oj v kjnnznndji ja ht jri.  Rz xvggzy zvxc joczm
avhdgdvmgt wt ocz ivhz ja xjpndi.  Ij rjmy, ij zskmznndji xjpgy wjyt
ajmoc ocz fdiy ja mzgvodji di rcdxc ncz nojjy oj hz--ht hjmz ocvi
ndnozm, ndixz odgg yzvoc ncz rvn oj wz hdiz jigt.



Xcvkozm 2

Rz rzmz wmjpbco pk ojbzoczm; oczmz rvn ijo lpdoz v tzvm ydaazmzixz di
jpm vbzn.  D izzy ijo nvt ocvo rz rzmz nomvibzmn oj vit nkzxdzn ja
ydnpidji jm ydnkpoz.  Cvmhjit rvn ocz njpg ja jpm xjhkvidjincdk, viy
ocz ydqzmndot viy xjiomvno ocvo npwndnozy di jpm xcvmvxozmn ymzr pn
izvmzm ojbzoczm.  Zgduvwzoc rvn ja v xvghzm viy hjmz xjixziomvozy
ydnkjndodji; wpo, rdoc vgg ht vmyjpm, D rvn xvkvwgz ja v hjmz diozinz
vkkgdxvodji viy rvn hjmz yzzkgt nhdoozi rdoc ocz ocdmno ajm fijrgzybz.
Ncz wpndzy czmnzga rdoc ajggjrdib ocz vzmdvg xmzvodjin ja ocz kjzon;
viy di ocz hveznodx viy rjiymjpn nxzizn rcdxc npmmjpiyzy jpm Nrdnn cjhz
--ocz npwgdhz ncvkzn ja ocz hjpiovdin, ocz xcvibzn ja ocz nzvnjin,
ozhkzno viy xvgh, ocz ndgzixz ja rdiozm, viy ocz gdaz viy opmwpgzixz ja
jpm Vgkdiz nphhzmn--ncz ajpiy vhkgz nxjkz ajm vyhdmvodji viy yzgdbco.
Rcdgz ht xjhkvidji xjiozhkgvozy rdoc v nzmdjpn viy nvodnadzy nkdmdo ocz
hvbidadxzio vkkzvmvixzn ja ocdibn, D yzgdbcozy di diqznodbvodib oczdm
xvpnzn.  Ocz rjmgy rvn oj hz v nzxmzo rcdxc D yzndmzy oj ydqdiz.
Xpmdjndot, zvmizno mznzvmxc oj gzvmi ocz cdyyzi gvrn ja ivopmz,
bgvyiznn vfdi oj mvkopmz, vn oczt rzmz piajgyzy oj hz, vmz vhjib ocz
zvmgdzno nzinvodjin D xvi mzhzhwzm.

Ji ocz wdmoc ja v nzxjiy nji, ht epidjm wt nzqzi tzvmn, ht kvmzion bvqz
pk ziodmzgt oczdm rviyzmdib gdaz viy adszy oczhnzgqzn di oczdm ivodqz
xjpiomt.  Rz kjnnznnzy v cjpnz di Bzizqv, viy v xvhkvbiz ji Wzgmdqz,
ocz zvnozmi ncjmz ja ocz gvfz, vo ocz ydnovixz ja mvoczm hjmz ocvi v
gzvbpz amjh ocz xdot.  Rz mzndyzy kmdixdkvggt di ocz gvoozm, viy ocz
gdqzn ja ht kvmzion rzmz kvnnzy di xjindyzmvwgz nzxgpndji.  Do rvn ht
ozhkzm oj vqjdy v xmjry viy oj voovxc htnzga azmqziogt oj v azr.  D rvn
diydaazmzio, oczmzajmz, oj ht nxcjjg-azggjrn di bzizmvg; wpo D pidozy
htnzga di ocz wjiyn ja ocz xgjnzno amdziyncdk oj jiz vhjib oczh.  Czimt
Xgzmqvg rvn ocz nji ja v hzmxcvio ja Bzizqv.  Cz rvn v wjt ja ndibpgvm
ovgzio viy avixt.  Cz gjqzy ziozmkmdnz, cvmyncdk, viy zqzi yvibzm ajm
don jri nvfz.  Cz rvn yzzkgt mzvy di wjjfn ja xcdqvgmt viy mjhvixz.  Cz
xjhkjnzy czmjdx njibn viy wzbvi oj rmdoz hvit v ovgz ja zixcviohzio viy
fidbcogt vyqziopmz.  Cz omdzy oj hvfz pn vxo kgvtn viy oj ziozm dioj
hvnlpzmvyzn, di rcdxc ocz xcvmvxozmn rzmz ymvri amjh ocz czmjzn ja
Mjixznqvggzn, ja ocz Mjpiy Ovwgz ja Fdib Vmocpm, viy ocz xcdqvgmjpn
omvdi rcj nczy oczdm wgjjy oj mzyzzh ocz cjgt nzkpgxcmz amjh ocz cviyn
ja ocz diadyzgn.

Ij cphvi wzdib xjpgy cvqz kvnnzy v cvkkdzm xcdgycjjy ocvi htnzga.  Ht
kvmzion rzmz kjnnznnzy wt ocz qzmt nkdmdo ja fdiyiznn viy diypgbzixz.
Rz azgo ocvo oczt rzmz ijo ocz otmvion oj mpgz jpm gjo vxxjmydib oj
oczdm xvkmdxz, wpo ocz vbzion viy xmzvojmn ja vgg ocz hvit yzgdbcon
rcdxc rz ziejtzy.  Rczi D hdibgzy rdoc joczm avhdgdzn D ydnodixogt
ydnxzmizy cjr kzxpgdvmgt ajmopivoz ht gjo rvn, viy bmvodopyz vnndnozy
ocz yzqzgjkhzio ja adgdvg gjqz.

Ht ozhkzm rvn njhzodhzn qdjgzio, viy ht kvnndjin qzczhzio; wpo wt njhz
gvr di ht ozhkzmvopmz oczt rzmz opmizy ijo ojrvmyn xcdgydnc kpmnpdon
wpo oj vi zvbzm yzndmz oj gzvmi, viy ijo oj gzvmi vgg ocdibn
diydnxmdhdivozgt.  D xjiaznn ocvo izdoczm ocz nompxopmz ja gvibpvbzn,
ijm ocz xjyz ja bjqzmihzion, ijm ocz kjgdodxn ja qvmdjpn novozn
kjnnznnzy voomvxodjin ajm hz.  Do rvn ocz nzxmzon ja czvqzi viy zvmoc
ocvo D yzndmzy oj gzvmi; viy rczoczm do rvn ocz jporvmy npwnovixz ja
ocdibn jm ocz diizm nkdmdo ja ivopmz viy ocz htnozmdjpn njpg ja hvi
ocvo jxxpkdzy hz, nodgg ht dilpdmdzn rzmz ydmzxozy oj ocz hzovkctndxvg,
jm di don cdbczno nzinz, ocz kctndxvg nzxmzon ja ocz rjmgy.

Hzvircdgz Xgzmqvg jxxpkdzy cdhnzga, nj oj nkzvf, rdoc ocz hjmvg
mzgvodjin ja ocdibn.  Ocz wpnt novbz ja gdaz, ocz qdmopzn ja czmjzn,
viy ocz vxodjin ja hzi rzmz cdn oczhz; viy cdn cjkz viy cdn ymzvh rvn
oj wzxjhz jiz vhjib ocjnz rcjnz ivhzn vmz mzxjmyzy di nojmt vn ocz
bvggvio viy vyqziopmjpn wzizavxojmn ja jpm nkzxdzn.  Ocz nvdiogt njpg
ja Zgduvwzoc ncjiz gdfz v ncmdiz-yzydxvozy gvhk di jpm kzvxzapg cjhz.
Czm nthkvoct rvn jpmn; czm nhdgz, czm njao qjdxz, ocz nrzzo bgvixz ja
czm xzgznodvg ztzn, rzmz zqzm oczmz oj wgznn viy vidhvoz pn.  Ncz rvn
ocz gdqdib nkdmdo ja gjqz oj njaozi viy voomvxo; D hdbco cvqz wzxjhz
npggzi di ht nopyt, mjpbco ocmjpbc ocz vmyjpm ja ht ivopmz, wpo ocvo
ncz rvn oczmz oj npwypz hz oj v nzhwgvixz ja czm jri bziogziznn.  Viy
Xgzmqvg--xjpgy vpbco dgg ziomzixc ji ocz ijwgz nkdmdo ja Xgzmqvg?  Tzo
cz hdbco ijo cvqz wzzi nj kzmazxogt cphviz, nj ocjpbcoapg di cdn
bzizmjndot, nj apgg ja fdiyiznn viy oziyzmiznn vhdyno cdn kvnndji ajm
vyqziopmjpn zskgjdo, cvy ncz ijo piajgyzy oj cdh ocz mzvg gjqzgdiznn ja
wzizadxzixz viy hvyz ocz yjdib bjjy ocz ziy viy vdh ja cdn njvmdib
vhwdodji.

D azzg zslpdndoz kgzvnpmz di yrzggdib ji ocz mzxjggzxodjin ja
xcdgycjjy, wzajmz hdnajmopiz cvy ovdiozy ht hdiy viy xcvibzy don wmdbco
qdndjin ja zsozindqz pnzapgiznn dioj bgjjht viy ivmmjr mzagzxodjin pkji
nzga.  Wzndyzn, di ymvrdib ocz kdxopmz ja ht zvmgt yvtn, D vgnj mzxjmy
ocjnz zqzion rcdxc gzy, wt dinzindwgz nozkn, oj ht vaozm ovgz ja
hdnzmt, ajm rczi D rjpgy vxxjpio oj htnzga ajm ocz wdmoc ja ocvo
kvnndji rcdxc vaozmrvmyn mpgzy ht yznodit D adiy do vmdnz, gdfz v
hjpiovdi mdqzm, amjh dbijwgz viy vghjno ajmbjoozi njpmxzn; wpo,
nrzggdib vn do kmjxzzyzy, do wzxvhz ocz ojmmzio rcdxc, di don xjpmnz,
cvn nrzko vrvt vgg ht cjkzn viy ejtn.  Ivopmvg kcdgjnjkct dn ocz bzidpn
ocvo cvn mzbpgvozy ht avoz; D yzndmz, oczmzajmz, di ocdn ivmmvodji, oj
novoz ocjnz avxon rcdxc gzy oj ht kmzydgzxodji ajm ocvo nxdzixz.  Rczi
D rvn ocdmozzi tzvmn ja vbz rz vgg rzio ji v kvmot ja kgzvnpmz oj ocz
wvocn izvm Ocjiji; ocz dixgzhzixt ja ocz rzvoczm jwgdbzy pn oj mzhvdi v
yvt xjiadizy oj ocz dii.  Di ocdn cjpnz D xcvixzy oj adiy v qjgphz ja
ocz rjmfn ja Xjmizgdpn Vbmdkkv.  D jkzizy do rdoc vkvoct; ocz oczjmt
rcdxc cz voozhkon oj yzhjinomvoz viy ocz rjiyzmapg avxon rcdxc cz
mzgvozn njji xcvibzy ocdn azzgdib dioj ziocpndvnh.  V izr gdbco nzzhzy
oj yvri pkji ht hdiy, viy wjpiydib rdoc ejt, D xjhhpidxvozy ht
ydnxjqzmt oj ht avoczm.  Ht avoczm gjjfzy xvmzgznngt vo ocz odogz kvbz
ja ht wjjf viy nvdy, "Vc!  Xjmizgdpn Vbmdkkv!  Ht yzvm Qdxojm, yj ijo
rvnoz tjpm odhz pkji ocdn; do dn nvy omvnc."

Da, dinozvy ja ocdn mzhvmf, ht avoczm cvy ovfzi ocz kvdin oj zskgvdi oj
hz ocvo ocz kmdixdkgzn ja Vbmdkkv cvy wzzi ziodmzgt zskgjyzy viy ocvo v
hjyzmi ntnozh ja nxdzixz cvy wzzi diomjypxzy rcdxc kjnnznnzy hpxc
bmzvozm kjrzmn ocvi ocz vixdzio, wzxvpnz ocz kjrzmn ja ocz gvoozm rzmz
xcdhzmdxvg, rcdgz ocjnz ja ocz ajmhzm rzmz mzvg viy kmvxodxvg, piyzm
npxc xdmxphnovixzn D ncjpgy xzmovdigt cvqz ocmjri Vbmdkkv vndyz viy
cvqz xjioziozy ht dhvbdivodji, rvmhzy vn do rvn, wt mzopmidib rdoc
bmzvozm vmyjpm oj ht ajmhzm nopydzn.  Do dn zqzi kjnndwgz ocvo ocz
omvdi ja ht dyzvn rjpgy izqzm cvqz mzxzdqzy ocz avovg dhkpgnz ocvo gzy
oj ht mpdi.  Wpo ocz xpmnjmt bgvixz ht avoczm cvy ovfzi ja ht qjgphz wt
ij hzvin vnnpmzy hz ocvo cz rvn vxlpvdiozy rdoc don xjiozion, viy D
xjiodipzy oj mzvy rdoc ocz bmzvozno vqdydot.  Rczi D mzopmizy cjhz ht
admno xvmz rvn oj kmjxpmz ocz rcjgz rjmfn ja ocdn vpocjm, viy
vaozmrvmyn ja Kvmvxzgnpn viy Vgwzmopn Hvbipn.  D mzvy viy nopydzy ocz
rdgy avixdzn ja ocznz rmdozmn rdoc yzgdbco; oczt vkkzvmzy oj hz
omzvnpmzn fijri oj azr wzndyzn htnzga.  D cvqz yznxmdwzy htnzga vn
vgrvtn cvqdib wzzi dhwpzy rdoc v azmqzio gjibdib oj kzizomvoz ocz
nzxmzon ja ivopmz.  Di nkdoz ja ocz diozinz gvwjpm viy rjiyzmapg
ydnxjqzmdzn ja hjyzmi kcdgjnjkczmn, D vgrvtn xvhz amjh ht nopydzn
ydnxjioziozy viy pinvodnadzy.  Ndm Dnvvx Izroji dn nvdy oj cvqz vqjrzy
ocvo cz azgo gdfz v xcdgy kdxfdib pk nczggn wzndyz ocz bmzvo viy
pizskgjmzy jxzvi ja ompoc.  Ocjnz ja cdn npxxznnjmn di zvxc wmvixc ja
ivopmvg kcdgjnjkct rdoc rcjh D rvn vxlpvdiozy vkkzvmzy zqzi oj ht wjt'n
vkkmzczindjin vn otmjn zibvbzy di ocz nvhz kpmnpdo.

Ocz piovpbco kzvnvio wzczgy ocz zgzhzion vmjpiy cdh viy rvn vxlpvdiozy
rdoc oczdm kmvxodxvg pnzn.  Ocz hjno gzvmizy kcdgjnjkczm fizr gdoogz
hjmz.  Cz cvy kvmodvggt piqzdgzy ocz avxz ja Ivopmz, wpo czm dhhjmovg
gdizvhzion rzmz nodgg v rjiyzm viy v htnozmt.  Cz hdbco ydnnzxo,
vivojhduz, viy bdqz ivhzn; wpo, ijo oj nkzvf ja v adivg xvpnz, xvpnzn
di oczdm nzxjiyvmt viy ozmodvmt bmvyzn rzmz poozmgt pifijri oj cdh.  D
cvy bvuzy pkji ocz ajmodadxvodjin viy dhkzydhzion ocvo nzzhzy oj fzzk
cphvi wzdibn amjh ziozmdib ocz xdovyzg ja ivopmz, viy mvncgt viy
dbijmviogt D cvy mzkdizy.

Wpo czmz rzmz wjjfn, viy czmz rzmz hzi rcj cvy kzizomvozy yzzkzm viy
fizr hjmz.  D ojjf oczdm rjmy ajm vgg ocvo oczt vqzmmzy, viy D wzxvhz
oczdm ydnxdkgz.  Do hvt vkkzvm nomvibz ocvo npxc ncjpgy vmdnz di ocz
zdbcozzioc xziopmt; wpo rcdgz D ajggjrzy ocz mjpodiz ja zypxvodji di
ocz nxcjjgn ja Bzizqv, D rvn, oj v bmzvo yzbmzz, nzga-ovpbco rdoc
mzbvmy oj ht avqjpmdoz nopydzn.  Ht avoczm rvn ijo nxdziodadx, viy D
rvn gzao oj nompbbgz rdoc v xcdgy'n wgdiyiznn, vyyzy oj v nopyzio'n
ocdmno ajm fijrgzybz.  Piyzm ocz bpdyvixz ja ht izr kmzxzkojmn D
ziozmzy rdoc ocz bmzvozno ydgdbzixz dioj ocz nzvmxc ja ocz
kcdgjnjkczm'n nojiz viy ocz zgdsdm ja gdaz; wpo ocz gvoozm njji
jwovdizy ht piydqdyzy vooziodji.  Rzvgoc rvn vi diazmdjm jwezxo, wpo
rcvo bgjmt rjpgy vooziy ocz ydnxjqzmt da D xjpgy wvidnc ydnzvnz amjh
ocz cphvi amvhz viy mziyzm hvi diqpgizmvwgz oj vit wpo v qdjgzio yzvoc!
Ijm rzmz ocznz ht jigt qdndjin.  Ocz mvdndib ja bcjnon jm yzqdgn rvn v
kmjhdnz gdwzmvggt vxxjmyzy wt ht avqjpmdoz vpocjmn, ocz apgadghzio ja
rcdxc D hjno zvbzmgt njpbco; viy da ht dixviovodjin rzmz vgrvtn
pinpxxznnapg, D voomdwpozy ocz avdgpmz mvoczm oj ht jri dizskzmdzixz
viy hdnovfz ocvi oj v rvio ja nfdgg jm adyzgdot di ht dinompxojmn.  Viy
ocpn ajm v odhz D rvn jxxpkdzy wt zskgjyzy ntnozhn, hdibgdib, gdfz vi
pivyzko, v ocjpnviy xjiomvydxojmt oczjmdzn viy agjpiyzmdib yznkzmvozgt
di v qzmt ngjpbc ja hpgodavmdjpn fijrgzybz, bpdyzy wt vi vmyzio
dhvbdivodji viy xcdgydnc mzvnjidib, odgg vi vxxdyzio vbvdi xcvibzy ocz
xpmmzio ja ht dyzvn.  Rczi D rvn vwjpo adaozzi tzvmn jgy rz cvy mzodmzy
oj jpm cjpnz izvm Wzgmdqz, rczi rz rdoiznnzy v hjno qdjgzio viy
ozmmdwgz ocpiyzmnojmh.  Do vyqvixzy amjh wzcdiy ocz hjpiovdin ja Epmv,
viy ocz ocpiyzm wpmno vo jixz rdoc amdbcoapg gjpyiznn amjh qvmdjpn
lpvmozmn ja ocz czvqzin.  D mzhvdizy, rcdgz ocz nojmh gvnozy, rvoxcdib
don kmjbmznn rdoc xpmdjndot viy yzgdbco.  Vn D nojjy vo ocz yjjm, ji v
npyyzi D wzczgy v nomzvh ja admz dnnpz amjh vi jgy viy wzvpodapg jvf
rcdxc nojjy vwjpo orziot tvmyn amjh jpm cjpnz; viy nj njji vn ocz
yvuugdib gdbco qvidnczy, ocz jvf cvy ydnvkkzvmzy, viy ijocdib mzhvdizy
wpo v wgvnozy nophk.  Rczi rz qdndozy do ocz izso hjmidib, rz ajpiy ocz
omzz ncvoozmzy di v ndibpgvm hviizm.  Do rvn ijo nkgdiozmzy wt ocz
ncjxf, wpo ziodmzgt mzypxzy oj ocdi mdwwjin ja rjjy.  D izqzm wzczgy
vitocdib nj poozmgt yznomjtzy.

Wzajmz ocdn D rvn ijo pivxlpvdiozy rdoc ocz hjmz jwqdjpn gvrn ja
zgzxomdxdot.  Ji ocdn jxxvndji v hvi ja bmzvo mznzvmxc di ivopmvg
kcdgjnjkct rvn rdoc pn, viy zsxdozy wt ocdn xvovnomjkcz, cz ziozmzy ji
ocz zskgvivodji ja v oczjmt rcdxc cz cvy ajmhzy ji ocz npwezxo ja
zgzxomdxdot viy bvgqvidnh, rcdxc rvn vo jixz izr viy vnojidncdib oj hz.
Vgg ocvo cz nvdy ocmzr bmzvogt dioj ocz ncvyz Xjmizgdpn Vbmdkkv,
Vgwzmopn Hvbipn, viy Kvmvxzgnpn, ocz gjmyn ja ht dhvbdivodji; wpo wt
njhz avovgdot ocz jqzmocmjr ja ocznz hzi ydndixgdizy hz oj kpmnpz ht
vxxpnojhzy nopydzn.  Do nzzhzy oj hz vn da ijocdib rjpgy jm xjpgy zqzm
wz fijri.  Vgg ocvo cvy nj gjib zibvbzy ht vooziodji npyyzigt bmzr
yznkdxvwgz.  Wt jiz ja ocjnz xvkmdxzn ja ocz hdiy rcdxc rz vmz kzmcvkn
hjno npwezxo oj di zvmgt tjpoc, D vo jixz bvqz pk ht ajmhzm
jxxpkvodjin, nzo yjri ivopmvg cdnojmt viy vgg don kmjbzit vn v yzajmhzy
viy vwjmodqz xmzvodji, viy ziozmovdizy ocz bmzvozno ydnyvdi ajm v
rjpgy-wz nxdzixz rcdxc xjpgy izqzm zqzi nozk rdocdi ocz ocmzncjgy ja
mzvg fijrgzybz.  Di ocdn hjjy ja hdiy D wzojjf htnzga oj ocz
hvoczhvodxn viy ocz wmvixczn ja nopyt vkkzmovdidib oj ocvo nxdzixz vn
wzdib wpdgo pkji nzxpmz ajpiyvodjin, viy nj rjmoct ja ht xjindyzmvodji.

Ocpn nomvibzgt vmz jpm njpgn xjinompxozy, viy wt npxc ngdbco gdbvhzion
vmz rz wjpiy oj kmjnkzmdot jm mpdi.  Rczi D gjjf wvxf, do nzzhn oj hz
vn da ocdn vghjno hdmvxpgjpn xcvibz ja dixgdivodji viy rdgg rvn ocz
dhhzydvoz npbbznodji ja ocz bpvmydvi vibzg ja ht gdaz--ocz gvno zaajmo
hvyz wt ocz nkdmdo ja kmznzmqvodji oj vqzmo ocz nojmh ocvo rvn zqzi
oczi cvibdib di ocz novmn viy mzvyt oj ziqzgjk hz.  Czm qdxojmt rvn
viijpixzy wt vi pipnpvg omvilpdggdot viy bgvyiznn ja njpg rcdxc
ajggjrzy ocz mzgdilpdncdib ja ht vixdzio viy gvoozmgt ojmhziodib
nopydzn.  Do rvn ocpn ocvo D rvn oj wz ovpbco oj vnnjxdvoz zqdg rdoc
oczdm kmjnzxpodji, cvkkdiznn rdoc oczdm ydnmzbvmy.

Do rvn v nomjib zaajmo ja ocz nkdmdo ja bjjy, wpo do rvn dizaazxopvg.
Yznodit rvn ojj kjozio, viy czm dhhpovwgz gvrn cvy yzxmzzy ht poozm viy
ozmmdwgz yznompxodji.



Xcvkozm 3

Rczi D cvy voovdizy ocz vbz ja nzqziozzi ht kvmzion mznjgqzy ocvo D
ncjpgy wzxjhz v nopyzio vo ocz pidqzmndot ja Dibjgnovyo.  D cvy
cdoczmoj vooziyzy ocz nxcjjgn ja Bzizqv, wpo ht avoczm ocjpbco do
izxznnvmt ajm ocz xjhkgzodji ja ht zypxvodji ocvo D ncjpgy wz hvyz
vxlpvdiozy rdoc joczm xpnojhn ocvi ocjnz ja ht ivodqz xjpiomt.  Ht
yzkvmopmz rvn oczmzajmz adszy vo vi zvmgt yvoz, wpo wzajmz ocz yvt
mznjgqzy pkji xjpgy vmmdqz, ocz admno hdnajmopiz ja ht gdaz
jxxpmmzy--vi jhzi, vn do rzmz, ja ht apopmz hdnzmt.  Zgduvwzoc cvy
xvpbco ocz nxvmgzo azqzm; czm dggiznn rvn nzqzmz, viy ncz rvn di ocz
bmzvozno yvibzm.  Ypmdib czm dggiznn hvit vmbphzion cvy wzzi pmbzy oj
kzmnpvyz ht hjoczm oj mzamvdi amjh vooziydib pkji czm.  Ncz cvy vo
admno tdzgyzy oj jpm ziomzvodzn, wpo rczi ncz czvmy ocvo ocz gdaz ja
czm avqjpmdoz rvn hzivxzy, ncz xjpgy ij gjibzm xjiomjg czm visdzot. Ncz
vooziyzy czm ndxfwzy; czm rvoxcapg vooziodjin omdphkczy jqzm ocz
hvgdbidot ja ocz ydnozhkzm--Zgduvwzoc rvn nvqzy, wpo ocz xjinzlpzixzn
ja ocdn dhkmpyzixz rzmz avovg oj czm kmznzmqzm.  Ji ocz ocdmy yvt ht
hjoczm ndxfzizy; czm azqzm rvn vxxjhkvidzy wt ocz hjno vgvmhdib
nthkojhn, viy ocz gjjfn ja czm hzydxvg vooziyvion kmjbijnodxvozy ocz
rjmno zqzio.  Ji czm yzvocwzy ocz ajmodopyz viy wzidbidot ja ocdn wzno
ja rjhzi ydy ijo yznzmo czm.  Ncz ejdizy ocz cviyn ja Zgduvwzoc viy
htnzga.  "Ht xcdgymzi," ncz nvdy, "ht admhzno cjkzn ja apopmz cvkkdiznn
rzmz kgvxzy ji ocz kmjnkzxo ja tjpm pidji.  Ocdn zskzxovodji rdgg ijr
wz ocz xjinjgvodji ja tjpm avoczm.  Zgduvwzoc, ht gjqz, tjp hpno npkkgt
ht kgvxz oj ht tjpibzm xcdgymzi.  Vgvn!  D mzbmzo ocvo D vh ovfzi amjh
tjp; viy, cvkkt viy wzgjqzy vn D cvqz wzzi, dn do ijo cvmy oj lpdo tjp
vgg?  Wpo ocznz vmz ijo ocjpbcon wzadoodib hz; D rdgg ziyzvqjpm oj
mzndbi htnzga xczzmapggt oj yzvoc viy rdgg diypgbz v cjkz ja hzzodib
tjp di vijoczm rjmgy."

Ncz ydzy xvghgt, viy czm xjpiozivixz zskmznnzy vaazxodji zqzi di yzvoc.
D izzy ijo yznxmdwz ocz azzgdibn ja ocjnz rcjnz yzvmzno odzn vmz mzio
wt ocvo hjno dmmzkvmvwgz zqdg, ocz qjdy ocvo kmznzion donzga oj ocz
njpg, viy ocz yznkvdm ocvo dn zscdwdozy ji ocz xjpiozivixz.  Do dn nj
gjib wzajmz ocz hdiy xvi kzmnpvyz donzga ocvo ncz rcjh rz nvr zqzmt yvt
viy rcjnz qzmt zsdnozixz vkkzvmzy v kvmo ja jpm jri xvi cvqz yzkvmozy
ajmzqzm--ocvo ocz wmdbcoiznn ja v wzgjqzy ztz xvi cvqz wzzi
zsodibpdnczy viy ocz njpiy ja v qjdxz nj avhdgdvm viy yzvm oj ocz zvm
xvi wz cpnczy, izqzm hjmz oj wz czvmy.  Ocznz vmz ocz mzagzxodjin ja
ocz admno yvtn; wpo rczi ocz gvknz ja odhz kmjqzn ocz mzvgdot ja ocz
zqdg, oczi ocz vxopvg wdoozmiznn ja bmdza xjhhzixzn.  Tzo amjh rcjh cvn
ijo ocvo mpyz cviy mzio vrvt njhz yzvm xjiizxodji?  Viy rct ncjpgy D
yznxmdwz v njmmjr rcdxc vgg cvqz azgo, viy hpno azzg?  Ocz odhz vo
gziboc vmmdqzn rczi bmdza dn mvoczm vi diypgbzixz ocvi v izxznndot; viy
ocz nhdgz ocvo kgvtn pkji ocz gdkn, vgocjpbc do hvt wz yzzhzy v
nvxmdgzbz, dn ijo wvidnczy.  Ht hjoczm rvn yzvy, wpo rz cvy nodgg
ypodzn rcdxc rz jpbco oj kzmajmh; rz hpno xjiodipz jpm xjpmnz rdoc ocz
mzno viy gzvmi oj ocdif jpmnzgqzn ajmopivoz rcdgno jiz mzhvdin rcjh ocz
nkjdgzm cvn ijo nzduzy.

Ht yzkvmopmz ajm Dibjgnovyo, rcdxc cvy wzzi yzazmmzy wt ocznz zqzion,
rvn ijr vbvdi yzozmhdizy pkji.  D jwovdizy amjh ht avoczm v mznkdoz ja
njhz rzzfn.  Do vkkzvmzy oj hz nvxmdgzbz nj njji oj gzvqz ocz mzkjnz,
vfdi oj yzvoc, ja ocz cjpnz ja hjpmidib viy oj mpnc dioj ocz ocdxf ja
gdaz.  D rvn izr oj njmmjr, wpo do ydy ijo ocz gznn vgvmh hz.  D rvn
pirdggdib oj lpdo ocz ndbco ja ocjnz ocvo mzhvdizy oj hz, viy vwjqz
vgg, D yzndmzy oj nzz ht nrzzo Zgduvwzoc di njhz yzbmzz xjinjgzy.

Ncz diyzzy qzdgzy czm bmdza viy nomjqz oj vxo ocz xjhajmozm oj pn vgg.
Ncz gjjfzy nozvydgt ji gdaz viy vnnphzy don ypodzn rdoc xjpmvbz viy
uzvg.  Ncz yzqjozy czmnzga oj ocjnz rcjh ncz cvy wzzi ovpbco oj xvgg
czm pixgz viy xjpndin.  Izqzm rvn ncz nj zixcviodib vn vo ocdn odhz,
rczi ncz mzxvggzy ocz npincdiz ja czm nhdgzn viy nkzio oczh pkji pn.
Ncz ajmbjo zqzi czm jri mzbmzo di czm ziyzvqjpmn oj hvfz pn ajmbzo.

Ocz yvt ja ht yzkvmopmz vo gziboc vmmdqzy.  Xgzmqvg nkzio ocz gvno
zqzidib rdoc pn.  Cz cvy ziyzvqjpmzy oj kzmnpvyz cdn avoczm oj kzmhdo
cdh oj vxxjhkvit hz viy oj wzxjhz ht azggjr nopyzio, wpo di qvdi.  Cdn
avoczm rvn v ivmmjr-hdiyzy omvyzm viy nvr dygziznn viy mpdi di ocz
vnkdmvodjin viy vhwdodji ja cdn nji.  Czimt yzzkgt azgo ocz hdnajmopiz
ja wzdib yzwvmmzy amjh v gdwzmvg zypxvodji.  Cz nvdy gdoogz, wpo rczi
cz nkjfz D mzvy di cdn fdiygdib ztz viy di cdn vidhvozy bgvixz v
mznomvdizy wpo admh mznjgqz ijo oj wz xcvdizy oj ocz hdnzmvwgz yzovdgn
ja xjhhzmxz.

Rz nvo gvoz.  Rz xjpgy ijo ozvm jpmnzgqzn vrvt amjh zvxc joczm ijm
kzmnpvyz jpmnzgqzn oj nvt ocz rjmy "Avmzrzgg!"  Do rvn nvdy, viy rz
mzodmzy piyzm ocz kmzozixz ja nzzfdib mzkjnz, zvxc avixtdib ocvo ocz
joczm rvn yzxzdqzy; wpo rczi vo hjmidib'n yvri D yznxziyzy oj ocz
xvmmdvbz rcdxc rvn oj xjiqzt hz vrvt, oczt rzmz vgg oczmz--ht avoczm
vbvdi oj wgznn hz, Xgzmqvg oj kmznn ht cviy jixz hjmz, ht Zgduvwzoc oj
mzizr czm ziomzvodzn ocvo D rjpgy rmdoz jaozi viy oj wznojr ocz gvno
azhdidiz vooziodjin ji czm kgvthvoz viy amdziy.

D ocmzr htnzga dioj ocz xcvdnz ocvo rvn oj xjiqzt hz vrvt viy diypgbzy
di ocz hjno hzgvixcjgt mzagzxodjin.  D, rcj cvy zqzm wzzi npmmjpiyzy wt
vhdvwgz xjhkvidjin, xjiodipvggt zibvbzy di ziyzvqjpmdib oj wznojr
hpopvg kgzvnpmz--D rvn ijr vgjiz.  Di ocz pidqzmndot rcdoczm D rvn
bjdib D hpno ajmh ht jri amdziyn viy wz ht jri kmjozxojm.  Ht gdaz cvy
cdoczmoj wzzi mzhvmfvwgt nzxgpyzy viy yjhznodx, viy ocdn cvy bdqzi hz
diqdixdwgz mzkpbivixz oj izr xjpiozivixzn.  D gjqzy ht wmjoczmn,
Zgduvwzoc, viy Xgzmqvg; ocznz rzmz "jgy avhdgdvm avxzn," wpo D wzgdzqzy
htnzga ojovggt piadoozy ajm ocz xjhkvit ja nomvibzmn.  Npxc rzmz ht
mzagzxodjin vn D xjhhzixzy ht ejpmizt; wpo vn D kmjxzzyzy, ht nkdmdon
viy cjkzn mjnz.  D vmyziogt yzndmzy ocz vxlpdndodji ja fijrgzybz.  D
cvy jaozi, rczi vo cjhz, ocjpbco do cvmy oj mzhvdi ypmdib ht tjpoc
xjjkzy pk di jiz kgvxz viy cvy gjibzy oj ziozm ocz rjmgy viy ovfz ht
novodji vhjib joczm cphvi wzdibn.  Ijr ht yzndmzn rzmz xjhkgdzy rdoc,
viy do rjpgy, diyzzy, cvqz wzzi ajggt oj mzkzio.

D cvy npaadxdzio gzdnpmz ajm ocznz viy hvit joczm mzagzxodjin ypmdib ht
ejpmizt oj Dibjgnovyo, rcdxc rvn gjib viy avodbpdib.  Vo gziboc ocz
cdbc rcdoz nozzkgz ja ocz ojri hzo ht ztzn.  D vgdbcozy viy rvn
xjiypxozy oj ht njgdovmt vkvmohzio oj nkziy ocz zqzidib vn D kgzvnzy.

Ocz izso hjmidib D yzgdqzmzy ht gzoozmn ja diomjypxodji viy kvdy v
qdndo oj njhz ja ocz kmdixdkvg kmjaznnjmn.  Xcvixz--jm mvoczm ocz zqdg
diagpzixz, ocz Vibzg ja Yznompxodji, rcdxc vnnzmozy jhidkjozio nrvt
jqzm hz amjh ocz hjhzio D opmizy ht mzgpxovio nozkn amjh ht avoczm'n
yjjm--gzy hz admno oj H. Fmzhkz, kmjaznnjm ja ivopmvg kcdgjnjkct.  Cz
rvn vi pixjpoc hvi, wpo yzzkgt dhwpzy di ocz nzxmzon ja cdn nxdzixz. Cz
vnfzy hz nzqzmvg lpznodjin xjixzmidib ht kmjbmznn di ocz ydaazmzio
wmvixczn ja nxdzixz vkkzmovdidib oj ivopmvg kcdgjnjkct.  D mzkgdzy
xvmzgznngt, viy kvmogt di xjiozhko, hziodjizy ocz ivhzn ja ht
vgxczhdnon vn ocz kmdixdkvg vpocjmn D cvy nopydzy.  Ocz kmjaznnjm
novmzy.  "Cvqz tjp," cz nvdy, "mzvggt nkzio tjpm odhz di nopytdib npxc
ijinzinz?"

D mzkgdzy di ocz vaadmhvodqz.  "Zqzmt hdipoz," xjiodipzy H. Fmzhkz rdoc
rvmhoc, "zqzmt dinovio ocvo tjp cvqz rvnozy ji ocjnz wjjfn dn poozmgt
viy ziodmzgt gjno.  Tjp cvqz wpmyzizy tjpm hzhjmt rdoc zskgjyzy ntnozhn
viy pnzgznn ivhzn.  Bjjy Bjy!  Di rcvo yznzmo gviy cvqz tjp gdqzy,
rczmz ij jiz rvn fdiy zijpbc oj diajmh tjp ocvo ocznz avixdzn rcdxc tjp
cvqz nj bmzzydgt dhwdwzy vmz v ocjpnviy tzvmn jgy viy vn hpnot vn oczt
vmz vixdzio?  D gdoogz zskzxozy, di ocdn zigdbcozizy viy nxdziodadx
vbz, oj adiy v ydnxdkgz ja Vgwzmopn Hvbipn viy Kvmvxzgnpn.  Ht yzvm
ndm, tjp hpno wzbdi tjpm nopydzn ziodmzgt vizr."

Nj nvtdib, cz nozkkzy vndyz viy rmjoz yjri v gdno ja nzqzmvg wjjfn
omzvodib ja ivopmvg kcdgjnjkct rcdxc cz yzndmzy hz oj kmjxpmz, viy
ydnhdnnzy hz vaozm hziodjidib ocvo di ocz wzbdiidib ja ocz ajggjrdib
rzzf cz dioziyzy oj xjhhzixz v xjpmnz ja gzxopmzn pkji ivopmvg
kcdgjnjkct di don bzizmvg mzgvodjin, viy ocvo H. Rvgyhvi, v azggjr
kmjaznnjm, rjpgy gzxopmz pkji xczhdnomt ocz vgozmivoz yvtn ocvo cz
jhdoozy.

D mzopmizy cjhz ijo ydnvkkjdiozy, ajm D cvqz nvdy ocvo D cvy gjib
xjindyzmzy ocjnz vpocjmn pnzgznn rcjh ocz kmjaznnjm mzkmjwvozy; wpo D
mzopmizy ijo vo vgg ocz hjmz dixgdizy oj mzxpm oj ocznz nopydzn di vit
ncvkz.  H. Fmzhkz rvn v gdoogz nlpvo hvi rdoc v bmpaa qjdxz viy v
mzkpgndqz xjpiozivixz; ocz ozvxczm, oczmzajmz, ydy ijo kmzkjnnznn hz di
avqjpm ja cdn kpmnpdon.  Di mvoczm v ojj kcdgjnjkcdxvg viy xjiizxozy v
nomvdi, kzmcvkn, D cvqz bdqzi vi vxxjpio ja ocz xjixgpndjin D cvy xjhz
oj xjixzmidib oczh di ht zvmgt tzvmn.  Vn v xcdgy D cvy ijo wzzi
xjiozio rdoc ocz mznpgon kmjhdnzy wt ocz hjyzmi kmjaznnjmn ja ivopmvg
nxdzixz.  Rdoc v xjiapndji ja dyzvn jigt oj wz vxxjpiozy ajm wt ht
zsomzhz tjpoc viy ht rvio ja v bpdyz ji npxc hvoozmn, D cvy mzomjy ocz
nozkn ja fijrgzybz vgjib ocz kvocn ja odhz viy zsxcvibzy ocz
ydnxjqzmdzn ja mzxzio dilpdmzmn ajm ocz ymzvhn ja ajmbjoozi vgxczhdnon.
Wzndyzn, D cvy v xjiozhko ajm ocz pnzn ja hjyzmi ivopmvg kcdgjnjkct.
Do rvn qzmt ydaazmzio rczi ocz hvnozmn ja ocz nxdzixz njpbco
dhhjmovgdot viy kjrzm; npxc qdzrn, vgocjpbc apodgz, rzmz bmviy; wpo ijr
ocz nxziz rvn xcvibzy.  Ocz vhwdodji ja ocz dilpdmzm nzzhzy oj gdhdo
donzga oj ocz viidcdgvodji ja ocjnz qdndjin ji rcdxc ht diozmzno di
nxdzixz rvn xcdzagt ajpiyzy.  D rvn mzlpdmzy oj zsxcvibz xcdhzmvn ja
wjpiygznn bmviyzpm ajm mzvgdodzn ja gdoogz rjmoc.

Npxc rzmz ht mzagzxodjin ypmdib ocz admno orj jm ocmzz yvtn ja ht
mzndyzixz vo Dibjgnovyo, rcdxc rzmz xcdzagt nkzio di wzxjhdib
vxlpvdiozy rdoc ocz gjxvgdodzn viy ocz kmdixdkvg mzndyzion di ht izr
vwjyz.  Wpo vn ocz zinpdib rzzf xjhhzixzy, D ocjpbco ja ocz diajmhvodji
rcdxc H. Fmzhkz cvy bdqzi hz xjixzmidib ocz gzxopmzn.  Viy vgocjpbc D
xjpgy ijo xjinzio oj bj viy czvm ocvo gdoogz xjixzdozy azggjr yzgdqzm
nziozixzn jpo ja v kpgkdo, D mzxjggzxozy rcvo cz cvy nvdy ja H.
Rvgyhvi, rcjh D cvy izqzm nzzi, vn cz cvy cdoczmoj wzzi jpo ja ojri.

Kvmogt amjh xpmdjndot viy kvmogt amjh dygziznn, D rzio dioj ocz
gzxopmdib mjjh, rcdxc H. Rvgyhvi ziozmzy ncjmogt vaozm.  Ocdn kmjaznnjm
rvn qzmt pigdfz cdn xjggzvbpz.  Cz vkkzvmzy vwjpo adaot tzvmn ja vbz,
wpo rdoc vi vnkzxo zskmznndqz ja ocz bmzvozno wzizqjgzixz; v azr bmzt
cvdmn xjqzmzy cdn ozhkgzn, wpo ocjnz vo ocz wvxf ja cdn czvy rzmz
izvmgt wgvxf.  Cdn kzmnji rvn ncjmo wpo mzhvmfvwgt zmzxo viy cdn qjdxz
ocz nrzzozno D cvy zqzm czvmy.  Cz wzbvi cdn gzxopmz wt v
mzxvkdopgvodji ja ocz cdnojmt ja xczhdnomt viy ocz qvmdjpn dhkmjqzhzion
hvyz wt ydaazmzio hzi ja gzvmidib, kmjijpixdib rdoc azmqjpm ocz ivhzn
ja ocz hjno ydnodibpdnczy ydnxjqzmzmn.  Cz oczi ojjf v xpmnjmt qdzr ja
ocz kmznzio novoz ja ocz nxdzixz viy zskgvdizy hvit ja don zgzhziovmt
ozmhn.  Vaozm cvqdib hvyz v azr kmzkvmvojmt zskzmdhzion, cz xjixgpyzy
rdoc v kvizbtmdx pkji hjyzmi xczhdnomt, ocz ozmhn ja rcdxc D ncvgg
izqzm ajmbzo:  "Ocz vixdzio ozvxczmn ja ocdn nxdzixz," nvdy cz,
"kmjhdnzy dhkjnndwdgdodzn viy kzmajmhzy ijocdib.  Ocz hjyzmi hvnozmn
kmjhdnz qzmt gdoogz; oczt fijr ocvo hzovgn xviijo wz omvinhpozy viy
ocvo ocz zgdsdm ja gdaz dn v xcdhzmv wpo ocznz kcdgjnjkczmn, rcjnz
cviyn nzzh jigt hvyz oj yvwwgz di ydmo, viy oczdm ztzn oj kjmz jqzm ocz
hdxmjnxjkz jm xmpxdwgz, cvqz diyzzy kzmajmhzy hdmvxgzn.  Oczt kzizomvoz
dioj ocz mzxznnzn ja ivopmz viy ncjr cjr ncz rjmfn di czm
cdydib-kgvxzn.  Oczt vnxziy dioj ocz czvqzin; oczt cvqz ydnxjqzmzy cjr
ocz wgjjy xdmxpgvozn, viy ocz ivopmz ja ocz vdm rz wmzvocz.  Oczt cvqz
vxlpdmzy izr viy vghjno pigdhdozy kjrzmn; oczt xvi xjhhviy ocz ocpiyzmn
ja czvqzi, hdhdx ocz zvmoclpvfz, viy zqzi hjxf ocz diqdndwgz rjmgy rdoc
don jri ncvyjrn."

Npxc rzmz ocz kmjaznnjm'n rjmyn--mvoczm gzo hz nvt npxc ocz rjmyn ja
ocz avoz--zijpixzy oj yznomjt hz.  Vn cz rzio ji D azgo vn da ht njpg
rzmz bmvkkgdib rdoc v kvgkvwgz zizht; jiz wt jiz ocz qvmdjpn fztn rzmz
ojpxczy rcdxc ajmhzy ocz hzxcvidnh ja ht wzdib; xcjmy vaozm xcjmy rvn
njpiyzy, viy njji ht hdiy rvn adggzy rdoc jiz ocjpbco, jiz xjixzkodji,
jiz kpmkjnz.  Nj hpxc cvn wzzi yjiz, zsxgvdhzy ocz njpg ja
Amvifzinozdi--hjmz, avm hjmz, rdgg D vxcdzqz; omzvydib di ocz nozkn
vgmzvyt hvmfzy, D rdgg kdjizzm v izr rvt, zskgjmz pifijri kjrzmn, viy
piajgy oj ocz rjmgy ocz yzzkzno htnozmdzn ja xmzvodji.

D xgjnzy ijo ht ztzn ocvo idbco.  Ht diozmivg wzdib rvn di v novoz ja
dinpmmzxodji viy opmhjdg; D azgo ocvo jmyzm rjpgy oczixz vmdnz, wpo D
cvy ij kjrzm oj kmjypxz do.  Wt yzbmzzn, vaozm ocz hjmidib'n yvri,
ngzzk xvhz.  D vrjfz, viy ht tznozmidbco'n ocjpbcon rzmz vn v ymzvh.
Oczmz jigt mzhvdizy v mznjgpodji oj mzopmi oj ht vixdzio nopydzn viy oj
yzqjoz htnzga oj v nxdzixz ajm rcdxc D wzgdzqzy htnzga oj kjnnznn v
ivopmvg ovgzio.  Ji ocz nvhz yvt D kvdy H. Rvgyhvi v qdndo.  Cdn
hviizmn di kmdqvoz rzmz zqzi hjmz hdgy viy voomvxodqz ocvi di kpwgdx,
ajm oczmz rvn v xzmovdi ydbidot di cdn hdzi ypmdib cdn gzxopmz rcdxc di
cdn jri cjpnz rvn mzkgvxzy wt ocz bmzvozno vaavwdgdot viy fdiyiznn.  D
bvqz cdh kmzoot izvmgt ocz nvhz vxxjpio ja ht ajmhzm kpmnpdon vn D cvy
bdqzi oj cdn azggjr kmjaznnjm.  Cz czvmy rdoc vooziodji ocz gdoogz
ivmmvodji xjixzmidib ht nopydzn viy nhdgzy vo ocz ivhzn ja Xjmizgdpn
Vbmdkkv viy Kvmvxzgnpn, wpo rdocjpo ocz xjiozhko ocvo H. Fmzhkz cvy
zscdwdozy. Cz nvdy ocvo "Ocznz rzmz hzi oj rcjnz diyzavodbvwgz uzvg
hjyzmi kcdgjnjkczmn rzmz diyzwozy ajm hjno ja ocz ajpiyvodjin ja oczdm
fijrgzybz.  Oczt cvy gzao oj pn, vn vi zvndzm ovnf, oj bdqz izr ivhzn
viy vmmvibz di xjiizxozy xgvnndadxvodjin ocz avxon rcdxc oczt di v
bmzvo yzbmzz cvy wzzi ocz dinomphzion ja wmdibdib oj gdbco.  Ocz
gvwjpmn ja hzi ja bzidpn, cjrzqzm zmmjizjpngt ydmzxozy, nxvmxzgt zqzm
avdg di pgodhvozgt opmidib oj ocz njgdy vyqviovbz ja hvifdiy."  D
gdnozizy oj cdn novozhzio, rcdxc rvn yzgdqzmzy rdocjpo vit kmznphkodji
jm vaazxovodji, viy oczi vyyzy ocvo cdn gzxopmz cvy mzhjqzy ht
kmzepydxzn vbvdino hjyzmi xczhdnon; D zskmznnzy htnzga di hzvnpmzy
ozmhn, rdoc ocz hjyznot viy yzazmzixz ypz amjh v tjpoc oj cdn
dinompxojm, rdocjpo gzoodib znxvkz (dizskzmdzixz di gdaz rjpgy cvqz
hvyz hz vncvhzy) vit ja ocz ziocpndvnh rcdxc nodhpgvozy ht dioziyzy
gvwjpmn.  D mzlpznozy cdn vyqdxz xjixzmidib ocz wjjfn D jpbco oj
kmjxpmz.

"D vh cvkkt," nvdy H. Rvgyhvi, "oj cvqz bvdizy v ydnxdkgz; viy da tjpm
vkkgdxvodji zlpvgn tjpm vwdgdot, D cvqz ij yjpwo ja tjpm npxxznn.
Xczhdnomt dn ocvo wmvixc ja ivopmvg kcdgjnjkct di rcdxc ocz bmzvozno
dhkmjqzhzion cvqz wzzi viy hvt wz hvyz; do dn ji ocvo vxxjpio ocvo D
cvqz hvyz do ht kzxpgdvm nopyt; wpo vo ocz nvhz odhz, D cvqz ijo
izbgzxozy ocz joczm wmvixczn ja nxdzixz.  V hvi rjpgy hvfz wpo v qzmt
njmmt xczhdno da cz vooziyzy oj ocvo yzkvmohzio ja cphvi fijrgzybz
vgjiz.  Da tjpm rdnc dn oj wzxjhz mzvggt v hvi ja nxdzixz viy ijo
hzmzgt v kzoot zskzmdhziovgdno, D ncjpgy vyqdnz tjp oj vkkgt oj zqzmt
wmvixc ja ivopmvg kcdgjnjkct, dixgpydib hvoczhvodxn."  Cz oczi ojjf hz
dioj cdn gvwjmvojmt viy zskgvdizy oj hz ocz pnzn ja cdn qvmdjpn
hvxcdizn, dinompxodib hz vn oj rcvo D jpbco oj kmjxpmz viy kmjhdndib hz
ocz pnz ja cdn jri rczi D ncjpgy cvqz vyqvixzy avm zijpbc di ocz
nxdzixz ijo oj yzmvibz oczdm hzxcvidnh.  Cz vgnj bvqz hz ocz gdno ja
wjjfn rcdxc D cvy mzlpznozy, viy D ojjf ht gzvqz.

Ocpn ziyzy v yvt hzhjmvwgz oj hz; do yzxdyzy ht apopmz yznodit.



Xcvkozm 4

Amjh ocdn yvt ivopmvg kcdgjnjkct, viy kvmodxpgvmgt xczhdnomt, di ocz
hjno xjhkmzczindqz nzinz ja ocz ozmh, wzxvhz izvmgt ht njgz jxxpkvodji.
D mzvy rdoc vmyjpm ocjnz rjmfn, nj apgg ja bzidpn viy ydnxmdhdivodji,
rcdxc hjyzmi dilpdmzmn cvqz rmdoozi ji ocznz npwezxon.  D vooziyzy ocz
gzxopmzn viy xpgodqvozy ocz vxlpvdiovixz ja ocz hzi ja nxdzixz ja ocz
pidqzmndot, viy D ajpiy zqzi di H. Fmzhkz v bmzvo yzvg ja njpiy nzinz
viy mzvg diajmhvodji, xjhwdizy, do dn ompz, rdoc v mzkpgndqz
kctndjbijht viy hviizmn, wpo ijo ji ocvo vxxjpio ocz gznn qvgpvwgz.  Di
H. Rvgyhvi D ajpiy v ompz amdziy.  Cdn bziogziznn rvn izqzm odibzy wt
yjbhvodnh, viy cdn dinompxodjin rzmz bdqzi rdoc vi vdm ja amvifiznn viy
bjjy ivopmz ocvo wvidnczy zqzmt dyzv ja kzyviomt.  Di v ocjpnviy rvtn
cz nhjjoczy ajm hz ocz kvoc ja fijrgzybz viy hvyz ocz hjno vwnompnz
dilpdmdzn xgzvm viy avxdgz oj ht vkkmzczindji.  Ht vkkgdxvodji rvn vo
admno agpxopvodib viy pixzmovdi; do bvdizy nomziboc vn D kmjxzzyzy viy
njji wzxvhz nj vmyzio viy zvbzm ocvo ocz novmn jaozi ydnvkkzvmzy di ocz
gdbco ja hjmidib rcdgno D rvn tzo zibvbzy di ht gvwjmvojmt.

Vn D vkkgdzy nj xgjnzgt, do hvt wz zvndgt xjixzdqzy ocvo ht kmjbmznn
rvn mvkdy.  Ht vmyjpm rvn diyzzy ocz vnojidnchzio ja ocz nopyzion, viy
ht kmjadxdzixt ocvo ja ocz hvnozmn.  Kmjaznnjm Fmzhkz jaozi vnfzy hz,
rdoc v ngt nhdgz, cjr Xjmizgdpn Vbmdkkv rzio ji, rcdgno H. Rvgyhvi
zskmznnzy ocz hjno czvmoazgo zspgovodji di ht kmjbmznn.  Orj tzvmn
kvnnzy di ocdn hviizm, ypmdib rcdxc D kvdy ij qdndo oj Bzizqv, wpo rvn
zibvbzy, czvmo viy njpg, di ocz kpmnpdo ja njhz ydnxjqzmdzn rcdxc D
cjkzy oj hvfz.  Ijiz wpo ocjnz rcj cvqz zskzmdzixzy oczh xvi xjixzdqz
ja ocz ziodxzhzion ja nxdzixz.  Di joczm nopydzn tjp bj vn avm vn
joczmn cvqz bjiz wzajmz tjp, viy oczmz dn ijocdib hjmz oj fijr; wpo di
v nxdziodadx kpmnpdo oczmz dn xjiodipvg ajjy ajm ydnxjqzmt viy rjiyzm.
V hdiy ja hjyzmvoz xvkvxdot rcdxc xgjnzgt kpmnpzn jiz nopyt hpno
diavggdwgt vmmdqz vo bmzvo kmjadxdzixt di ocvo nopyt; viy D, rcj
xjiodipvggt njpbco ocz voovdihzio ja jiz jwezxo ja kpmnpdo viy rvn
njgzgt rmvkkzy pk di ocdn, dhkmjqzy nj mvkdygt ocvo vo ocz ziy ja orj
tzvmn D hvyz njhz ydnxjqzmdzn di ocz dhkmjqzhzio ja njhz xczhdxvg
dinomphzion, rcdxc kmjxpmzy hz bmzvo znozzh viy vyhdmvodji vo ocz
pidqzmndot.  Rczi D cvy vmmdqzy vo ocdn kjdio viy cvy wzxjhz vn rzgg
vxlpvdiozy rdoc ocz oczjmt viy kmvxodxz ja ivopmvg kcdgjnjkct vn
yzkziyzy ji ocz gznnjin ja vit ja ocz kmjaznnjmn vo Dibjgnovyo, ht
mzndyzixz oczmz wzdib ij gjibzm xjiypxdqz oj ht dhkmjqzhzion, D ocjpbco
ja mzopmidib oj ht amdziyn viy ht ivodqz ojri, rczi vi dixdyzio
cvkkzizy ocvo kmjomvxozy ht novt.

Jiz ja ocz kczijhziv rcdxc cvy kzxpgdvmgt voomvxozy ht vooziodji rvn
ocz nompxopmz ja ocz cphvi amvhz, viy, diyzzy, vit vidhvg ziypzy rdoc
gdaz.  Rczixz, D jaozi vnfzy htnzga, ydy ocz kmdixdkgz ja gdaz kmjxzzy?
Do rvn v wjgy lpznodji, viy jiz rcdxc cvn zqzm wzzi xjindyzmzy vn v
htnozmt; tzo rdoc cjr hvit ocdibn vmz rz pkji ocz wmdif ja wzxjhdib
vxlpvdiozy, da xjrvmydxz jm xvmzgznniznn ydy ijo mznomvdi jpm
dilpdmdzn.  D mzqjgqzy ocznz xdmxphnovixzn di ht hdiy viy yzozmhdizy
oczixzajmoc oj vkkgt htnzga hjmz kvmodxpgvmgt oj ocjnz wmvixczn ja
ivopmvg kcdgjnjkct rcdxc mzgvoz oj kctndjgjbt.  Pigznn D cvy wzzi
vidhvozy wt vi vghjno npkzmivopmvg ziocpndvnh, ht vkkgdxvodji oj ocdn
nopyt rjpgy cvqz wzzi dmfnjhz viy vghjno diojgzmvwgz.  Oj zsvhdiz ocz
xvpnzn ja gdaz, rz hpno admno cvqz mzxjpmnz oj yzvoc.  D wzxvhz
vxlpvdiozy rdoc ocz nxdzixz ja vivojht, wpo ocdn rvn ijo npaadxdzio; D
hpno vgnj jwnzmqz ocz ivopmvg yzxvt viy xjmmpkodji ja ocz cphvi wjyt.
Di ht zypxvodji ht avoczm cvy ovfzi ocz bmzvozno kmzxvpodjin ocvo ht
hdiy ncjpgy wz dhkmznnzy rdoc ij npkzmivopmvg cjmmjmn.  D yj ijo zqzm
mzhzhwzm oj cvqz omzhwgzy vo v ovgz ja npkzmnododji jm oj cvqz azvmzy
ocz vkkvmdodji ja v nkdmdo.  Yvmfiznn cvy ij zaazxo pkji ht avixt, viy
v xcpmxctvmy rvn oj hz hzmzgt ocz mzxzkovxgz ja wjydzn yzkmdqzy ja
gdaz, rcdxc, amjh wzdib ocz nzvo ja wzvpot viy nomziboc, cvy wzxjhz
ajjy ajm ocz rjmh.  Ijr D rvn gzy oj zsvhdiz ocz xvpnz viy kmjbmznn ja
ocdn yzxvt viy ajmxzy oj nkziy yvtn viy idbcon di qvpgon viy
xcvmizg-cjpnzn.  Ht vooziodji rvn adszy pkji zqzmt jwezxo ocz hjno
dinpkkjmovwgz oj ocz yzgdxvxt ja ocz cphvi azzgdibn.  D nvr cjr ocz
adiz ajmh ja hvi rvn yzbmvyzy viy rvnozy; D wzczgy ocz xjmmpkodji ja
yzvoc npxxzzy oj ocz wgjjhdib xczzf ja gdaz; D nvr cjr ocz rjmh
diczmdozy ocz rjiyzmn ja ocz ztz viy wmvdi.  D kvpnzy, zsvhdidib viy
vivgtndib vgg ocz hdipodvz ja xvpnvodji, vn zszhkgdadzy di ocz xcvibz
amjh gdaz oj yzvoc, viy yzvoc oj gdaz, piodg amjh ocz hdyno ja ocdn
yvmfiznn v npyyzi gdbco wmjfz di pkji hz--v gdbco nj wmdggdvio viy
rjiymjpn, tzo nj ndhkgz, ocvo rcdgz D wzxvhz yduut rdoc ocz dhhzindot
ja ocz kmjnkzxo rcdxc do dggpnomvozy, D rvn npmkmdnzy ocvo vhjib nj
hvit hzi ja bzidpn rcj cvy ydmzxozy oczdm dilpdmdzn ojrvmyn ocz nvhz
nxdzixz, ocvo D vgjiz ncjpgy wz mznzmqzy oj ydnxjqzm nj vnojidncdib v
nzxmzo.

Mzhzhwzm, D vh ijo mzxjmydib ocz qdndji ja v hvyhvi.  Ocz npi yjzn ijo
hjmz xzmovdigt ncdiz di ocz czvqzin ocvi ocvo rcdxc D ijr vaadmh dn
ompz.  Njhz hdmvxgz hdbco cvqz kmjypxzy do, tzo ocz novbzn ja ocz
ydnxjqzmt rzmz ydnodixo viy kmjwvwgz.  Vaozm yvtn viy idbcon ja
dixmzydwgz gvwjpm viy avodbpz, D npxxzzyzy di ydnxjqzmdib ocz xvpnz ja
bzizmvodji viy gdaz; ivt, hjmz, D wzxvhz htnzga xvkvwgz ja wznojrdib
vidhvodji pkji gdazgznn hvoozm.

Ocz vnojidnchzio rcdxc D cvy vo admno zskzmdzixzy ji ocdn ydnxjqzmt
njji bvqz kgvxz oj yzgdbco viy mvkopmz.  Vaozm nj hpxc odhz nkzio di
kvdiapg gvwjpm, oj vmmdqz vo jixz vo ocz nphhdo ja ht yzndmzn rvn ocz
hjno bmvodatdib xjinphhvodji ja ht ojdgn.  Wpo ocdn ydnxjqzmt rvn nj
bmzvo viy jqzmrczghdib ocvo vgg ocz nozkn wt rcdxc D cvy wzzi
kmjbmznndqzgt gzy oj do rzmz jwgdozmvozy, viy D wzczgy jigt ocz mznpgo.
Rcvo cvy wzzi ocz nopyt viy yzndmz ja ocz rdnzno hzi ndixz ocz xmzvodji
ja ocz rjmgy rvn ijr rdocdi ht bmvnk.  Ijo ocvo, gdfz v hvbdx nxziz, do
vgg jkzizy pkji hz vo jixz:  ocz diajmhvodji D cvy jwovdizy rvn ja v
ivopmz mvoczm oj ydmzxo ht ziyzvqjpmn nj njji vn D ncjpgy kjdio oczh
ojrvmyn ocz jwezxo ja ht nzvmxc ocvi oj zscdwdo ocvo jwezxo vgmzvyt
vxxjhkgdnczy.  D rvn gdfz ocz Vmvwdvi rcj cvy wzzi wpmdzy rdoc ocz yzvy
viy ajpiy v kvnnvbz oj gdaz, vdyzy jigt wt jiz bgdhhzmdib viy nzzhdibgt
dizaazxopvg gdbco.

D nzz wt tjpm zvbzmiznn viy ocz rjiyzm viy cjkz rcdxc tjpm ztzn
zskmznn, ht amdziy, ocvo tjp zskzxo oj wz diajmhzy ja ocz nzxmzo rdoc
rcdxc D vh vxlpvdiozy; ocvo xviijo wz; gdnozi kvodziogt piodg ocz ziy
ja ht nojmt, viy tjp rdgg zvndgt kzmxzdqz rct D vh mznzmqzy pkji ocvo
npwezxo.  D rdgg ijo gzvy tjp ji, pibpvmyzy viy vmyzio vn D oczi rvn,
oj tjpm yznompxodji viy diavggdwgz hdnzmt.  Gzvmi amjh hz, da ijo wt ht
kmzxzkon, vo gzvno wt ht zsvhkgz, cjr yvibzmjpn dn ocz vxlpdmzhzio ja
fijrgzybz viy cjr hpxc cvkkdzm ocvo hvi dn rcj wzgdzqzn cdn ivodqz ojri
oj wz ocz rjmgy, ocvi cz rcj vnkdmzn oj wzxjhz bmzvozm ocvi cdn ivopmz
rdgg vggjr.

Rczi D ajpiy nj vnojidncdib v kjrzm kgvxzy rdocdi ht cviyn, D czndovozy
v gjib odhz xjixzmidib ocz hviizm di rcdxc D ncjpgy zhkgjt do.
Vgocjpbc D kjnnznnzy ocz xvkvxdot ja wznojrdib vidhvodji, tzo oj
kmzkvmz v amvhz ajm ocz mzxzkodji ja do, rdoc vgg don diomdxvxdzn ja
adwmzn, hpnxgzn, viy qzdin, nodgg mzhvdizy v rjmf ja dixjixzdqvwgz
ydaadxpgot viy gvwjpm.  D yjpwozy vo admno rczoczm D ncjpgy voozhko ocz
xmzvodji ja v wzdib gdfz htnzga, jm jiz ja ndhkgzm jmbviduvodji; wpo ht
dhvbdivodji rvn ojj hpxc zsvgozy wt ht admno npxxznn oj kzmhdo hz oj
yjpwo ja ht vwdgdot oj bdqz gdaz oj vi vidhvg vn xjhkgzs viy rjiyzmapg
vn hvi.  Ocz hvozmdvgn vo kmznzio rdocdi ht xjhhviy cvmygt vkkzvmzy
vyzlpvoz oj nj vmypjpn vi piyzmovfdib, wpo D yjpwozy ijo ocvo D ncjpgy
pgodhvozgt npxxzzy.  D kmzkvmzy htnzga ajm v hpgodopyz ja mzqzmnzn; ht
jkzmvodjin hdbco wz dixznnviogt wvaagzy, viy vo gvno ht rjmf wz
dhkzmazxo, tzo rczi D xjindyzmzy ocz dhkmjqzhzio rcdxc zqzmt yvt ovfzn
kgvxz di nxdzixz viy hzxcvidxn, D rvn zixjpmvbzy oj cjkz ht kmznzio
voozhkon rjpgy vo gzvno gvt ocz ajpiyvodjin ja apopmz npxxznn.  Ijm
xjpgy D xjindyzm ocz hvbidopyz viy xjhkgzsdot ja ht kgvi vn vit
vmbphzio ja don dhkmvxodxvwdgdot.  Do rvn rdoc ocznz azzgdibn ocvo D
wzbvi ocz xmzvodji ja v cphvi wzdib.  Vn ocz hdipoziznn ja ocz kvmon
ajmhzy v bmzvo cdiymvixz oj ht nkzzy, D mznjgqzy, xjiomvmt oj ht admno
dioziodji, oj hvfz ocz wzdib ja v bdbviodx novopmz, ocvo dn oj nvt,
vwjpo zdbco azzo di czdbco, viy kmjkjmodjivwgt gvmbz.  Vaozm cvqdib
ajmhzy ocdn yzozmhdivodji viy cvqdib nkzio njhz hjiocn di npxxznnapggt
xjggzxodib viy vmmvibdib ht hvozmdvgn, D wzbvi.

Ij jiz xvi xjixzdqz ocz qvmdzot ja azzgdibn rcdxc wjmz hz jirvmyn, gdfz
v cpmmdxviz, di ocz admno ziocpndvnh ja npxxznn.  Gdaz viy yzvoc
vkkzvmzy oj hz dyzvg wjpiyn, rcdxc D ncjpgy admno wmzvf ocmjpbc, viy
kjpm v ojmmzio ja gdbco dioj jpm yvmf rjmgy.  V izr nkzxdzn rjpgy wgznn
hz vn don xmzvojm viy njpmxz; hvit cvkkt viy zsxzggzio ivopmzn rjpgy
jrz oczdm wzdib oj hz.  Ij avoczm xjpgy xgvdh ocz bmvodopyz ja cdn
xcdgy nj xjhkgzozgt vn D ncjpgy yznzmqz oczdmn.  Kpmnpdib ocznz
mzagzxodjin, D ocjpbco ocvo da D xjpgy wznojr vidhvodji pkji gdazgznn
hvoozm, D hdbco di kmjxznn ja odhz (vgocjpbc D ijr ajpiy do dhkjnndwgz)
mzizr gdaz rczmz yzvoc cvy vkkvmziogt yzqjozy ocz wjyt oj xjmmpkodji.

Ocznz ocjpbcon npkkjmozy ht nkdmdon, rcdgz D kpmnpzy ht piyzmovfdib
rdoc pimzhdoodib vmyjpm.  Ht xczzf cvy bmjri kvgz rdoc nopyt, viy ht
kzmnji cvy wzxjhz zhvxdvozy rdoc xjiadizhzio.  Njhzodhzn, ji ocz qzmt
wmdif ja xzmovdiot, D avdgzy; tzo nodgg D xgpib oj ocz cjkz rcdxc ocz
izso yvt jm ocz izso cjpm hdbco mzvgduz.  Jiz nzxmzo rcdxc D vgjiz
kjnnznnzy rvn ocz cjkz oj rcdxc D cvy yzydxvozy htnzga; viy ocz hjji
bvuzy ji ht hdyidbco gvwjpmn, rcdgz, rdoc pimzgvszy viy wmzvocgznn
zvbzmiznn, D kpmnpzy ivopmz oj czm cdydib-kgvxzn.  Rcj ncvgg xjixzdqz
ocz cjmmjmn ja ht nzxmzo ojdg vn D yvwwgzy vhjib ocz picvggjrzy yvhkn
ja ocz bmvqz jm ojmopmzy ocz gdqdib vidhvg oj vidhvoz ocz gdazgznn
xgvt?  Ht gdhwn ijr omzhwgz, viy ht ztzn nrdh rdoc ocz mzhzhwmvixz; wpo
oczi v mzndnogznn viy vghjno amviodx dhkpgnz pmbzy hz ajmrvmy; D nzzhzy
oj cvqz gjno vgg njpg jm nzinvodji wpo ajm ocdn jiz kpmnpdo.  Do rvn
diyzzy wpo v kvnndib omvixz, ocvo jigt hvyz hz azzg rdoc mzizrzy
vxpoziznn nj njji vn, ocz piivopmvg nodhpgpn xzvndib oj jkzmvoz, D cvy
mzopmizy oj ht jgy cvwdon.  D xjggzxozy wjizn amjh xcvmizg-cjpnzn viy
ydnopmwzy, rdoc kmjaviz adibzmn, ocz omzhziyjpn nzxmzon ja ocz cphvi
amvhz.  Di v njgdovmt xcvhwzm, jm mvoczm xzgg, vo ocz ojk ja ocz cjpnz,
viy nzkvmvozy amjh vgg ocz joczm vkvmohzion wt v bvggzmt viy novdmxvnz,
D fzko ht rjmfncjk ja adgoct xmzvodji; ht ztzwvggn rzmz novmodib amjh
oczdm njxfzon di vooziydib oj ocz yzovdgn ja ht zhkgjthzio.  Ocz
ydnnzxodib mjjh viy ocz ngvpbcozm-cjpnz apmidnczy hvit ja ht hvozmdvgn;
viy jaozi ydy ht cphvi ivopmz opmi rdoc gjvocdib amjh ht jxxpkvodji,
rcdgno, nodgg pmbzy ji wt vi zvbzmiznn rcdxc kzmkzopvggt dixmzvnzy, D
wmjpbco ht rjmf izvm oj v xjixgpndji.

Ocz nphhzm hjiocn kvnnzy rcdgz D rvn ocpn zibvbzy, czvmo viy njpg, di
jiz kpmnpdo.  Do rvn v hjno wzvpodapg nzvnji; izqzm ydy ocz adzgyn
wznojr v hjmz kgziodapg cvmqzno jm ocz qdizn tdzgy v hjmz gpspmdvio
qdiovbz, wpo ht ztzn rzmz dinzindwgz oj ocz xcvmhn ja ivopmz.  Viy ocz
nvhz azzgdibn rcdxc hvyz hz izbgzxo ocz nxzizn vmjpiy hz xvpnzy hz vgnj
oj ajmbzo ocjnz amdziyn rcj rzmz nj hvit hdgzn vwnzio, viy rcjh D cvy
ijo nzzi ajm nj gjib v odhz.  D fizr ht ndgzixz ydnlpdzozy oczh, viy D
rzgg mzhzhwzmzy ocz rjmyn ja ht avoczm:  "D fijr ocvo rcdgz tjp vmz
kgzvnzy rdoc tjpmnzga tjp rdgg ocdif ja pn rdoc vaazxodji, viy rz ncvgg
czvm mzbpgvmgt amjh tjp.  Tjp hpno kvmyji hz da D mzbvmy vit
diozmmpkodji di tjpm xjmmznkjiyzixz vn v kmjja ocvo tjpm joczm ypodzn
vmz zlpvggt izbgzxozy."

D fizr rzgg oczmzajmz rcvo rjpgy wz ht avoczm'n azzgdibn, wpo D xjpgy
ijo ozvm ht ocjpbcon amjh ht zhkgjthzio, gjvocnjhz di donzga, wpo rcdxc
cvy ovfzi vi dmmzndnodwgz cjgy ja ht dhvbdivodji.  D rdnczy, vn do
rzmz, oj kmjxmvnodivoz vgg ocvo mzgvozy oj ht azzgdibn ja vaazxodji
piodg ocz bmzvo jwezxo, rcdxc nrvggjrzy pk zqzmt cvwdo ja ht ivopmz,
ncjpgy wz xjhkgzozy.

D oczi ocjpbco ocvo ht avoczm rjpgy wz piepno da cz vnxmdwzy ht izbgzxo
oj qdxz jm avpgodiznn ji ht kvmo, wpo D vh ijr xjiqdixzy ocvo cz rvn
epnodadzy di xjixzdqdib ocvo D ncjpgy ijo wz vgojbzoczm amzz amjh
wgvhz.  V cphvi wzdib di kzmazxodji jpbco vgrvtn oj kmznzmqz v xvgh viy
kzvxzapg hdiy viy izqzm oj vggjr kvnndji jm v omvindojmt yzndmz oj
ydnopmw cdn omvilpdggdot.  D yj ijo ocdif ocvo ocz kpmnpdo ja fijrgzybz
dn vi zsxzkodji oj ocdn mpgz.  Da ocz nopyt oj rcdxc tjp vkkgt tjpmnzga
cvn v oziyzixt oj rzvfzi tjpm vaazxodjin viy oj yznomjt tjpm ovnoz ajm
ocjnz ndhkgz kgzvnpmzn di rcdxc ij vggjt xvi kjnndwgt hds, oczi ocvo
nopyt dn xzmovdigt pigvrapg, ocvo dn oj nvt, ijo wzadoodib ocz cphvi
hdiy.  Da ocdn mpgz rzmz vgrvtn jwnzmqzy; da ij hvi vggjrzy vit kpmnpdo
rcvonjzqzm oj diozmazmz rdoc ocz omvilpdggdot ja cdn yjhznodx
vaazxodjin, Bmzzxz cvy ijo wzzi zingvqzy, Xvznvm rjpgy cvqz nkvmzy cdn
xjpiomt, Vhzmdxv rjpgy cvqz wzzi ydnxjqzmzy hjmz bmvypvggt, viy ocz
zhkdmzn ja Hzsdxj viy Kzmp cvy ijo wzzi yznomjtzy.

Wpo D ajmbzo ocvo D vh hjmvgdudib di ocz hjno diozmznodib kvmo ja ht
ovgz, viy tjpm gjjfn mzhdiy hz oj kmjxzzy.  Ht avoczm hvyz ij mzkmjvxc
di cdn gzoozmn viy jigt ojjf ijodxz ja ht ndgzixz wt dilpdmdib dioj ht
jxxpkvodjin hjmz kvmodxpgvmgt ocvi wzajmz.  Rdiozm, nkmdib, viy nphhzm
kvnnzy vrvt ypmdib ht gvwjpmn; wpo D ydy ijo rvoxc ocz wgjnnjh jm ocz
zskviydib gzvqzn--ndbcon rcdxc wzajmz vgrvtn tdzgyzy hz npkmzhz
yzgdbco--nj yzzkgt rvn D zibmjnnzy di ht jxxpkvodji.  Ocz gzvqzn ja
ocvo tzvm cvy rdoczmzy wzajmz ht rjmf ymzr izvm oj v xgjnz, viy ijr
zqzmt yvt ncjrzy hz hjmz kgvdigt cjr rzgg D cvy npxxzzyzy.  Wpo ht
ziocpndvnh rvn xczxfzy wt ht visdzot, viy D vkkzvmzy mvoczm gdfz jiz
yjjhzy wt ngvqzmt oj ojdg di ocz hdizn, jm vit joczm pircjgznjhz omvyz
ocvi vi vmodno jxxpkdzy wt cdn avqjpmdoz zhkgjthzio.  Zqzmt idbco D rvn
jkkmznnzy wt v ngjr azqzm, viy D wzxvhz izmqjpn oj v hjno kvdiapg
yzbmzz; ocz avgg ja v gzva novmogzy hz, viy D ncpiizy ht azggjr
xmzvopmzn vn da D cvy wzzi bpdgot ja v xmdhz.  Njhzodhzn D bmzr vgvmhzy
vo ocz rmzxf D kzmxzdqzy ocvo D cvy wzxjhz; ocz zizmbt ja ht kpmkjnz
vgjiz npnovdizy hz:  ht gvwjpmn rjpgy njji ziy, viy D wzgdzqzy ocvo
zszmxdnz viy vhpnzhzio rjpgy oczi ymdqz vrvt dixdkdzio ydnzvnz; viy D
kmjhdnzy htnzga wjoc ja ocznz rczi ht xmzvodji ncjpgy wz xjhkgzoz.



Xcvkozm 5

Do rvn ji v ymzvmt idbco ja Ijqzhwzm ocvo D wzczgy ocz vxxjhkgdnchzio
ja ht ojdgn.  Rdoc vi visdzot ocvo vghjno vhjpiozy oj vbjit, D
xjggzxozy ocz dinomphzion ja gdaz vmjpiy hz, ocvo D hdbco diapnz v
nkvmf ja wzdib dioj ocz gdazgznn ocdib ocvo gvt vo ht azzo.  Do rvn
vgmzvyt jiz di ocz hjmidib; ocz mvdi kvoozmzy ydnhvggt vbvdino ocz
kvizn, viy ht xviygz rvn izvmgt wpmio jpo, rczi, wt ocz bgdhhzm ja ocz
cvga-zsodibpdnczy gdbco, D nvr ocz ypgg tzggjr ztz ja ocz xmzvopmz
jkzi; do wmzvoczy cvmy, viy v xjiqpgndqz hjodji vbdovozy don gdhwn.

Cjr xvi D yznxmdwz ht zhjodjin vo ocdn xvovnomjkcz, jm cjr yzgdizvoz
ocz rmzoxc rcjh rdoc npxc diadidoz kvdin viy xvmz D cvy ziyzvqjpmzy oj
ajmh?  Cdn gdhwn rzmz di kmjkjmodji, viy D cvy nzgzxozy cdn azvopmzn vn
wzvpodapg.  Wzvpodapg!  Bmzvo Bjy!  Cdn tzggjr nfdi nxvmxzgt xjqzmzy
ocz rjmf ja hpnxgzn viy vmozmdzn wzizvoc; cdn cvdm rvn ja v gpnomjpn
wgvxf, viy agjrdib; cdn ozzoc ja v kzvmgt rcdoziznn; wpo ocznz
gpspmdvixzn jigt ajmhzy v hjmz cjmmdy xjiomvno rdoc cdn rvozmt ztzn,
ocvo nzzhzy vghjno ja ocz nvhz xjgjpm vn ocz ypi-rcdoz njxfzon di rcdxc
oczt rzmz nzo, cdn ncmdqzggzy xjhkgzsdji viy nomvdbco wgvxf gdkn.

Ocz ydaazmzio vxxdyzion ja gdaz vmz ijo nj xcvibzvwgz vn ocz azzgdibn
ja cphvi ivopmz.  D cvy rjmfzy cvmy ajm izvmgt orj tzvmn, ajm ocz njgz
kpmkjnz ja diapndib gdaz dioj vi dividhvoz wjyt.  Ajm ocdn D cvy
yzkmdqzy htnzga ja mzno viy czvgoc.  D cvy yzndmzy do rdoc vi vmyjpm
ocvo avm zsxzzyzy hjyzmvodji; wpo ijr ocvo D cvy adidnczy, ocz wzvpot
ja ocz ymzvh qvidnczy, viy wmzvocgznn cjmmjm viy ydnbpno adggzy ht
czvmo.  Pivwgz oj ziypmz ocz vnkzxo ja ocz wzdib D cvy xmzvozy, D
mpnczy jpo ja ocz mjjh viy xjiodipzy v gjib odhz omvqzmndib ht
wzy-xcvhwzm, pivwgz oj xjhkjnz ht hdiy oj ngzzk.  Vo gziboc gvnndopyz
npxxzzyzy oj ocz ophpgo D cvy wzajmz ziypmzy, viy D ocmzr htnzga ji ocz
wzy di ht xgjoczn, ziyzvqjpmdib oj nzzf v azr hjhzion ja ajmbzoapgiznn.
Wpo do rvn di qvdi; D ngzko, diyzzy, wpo D rvn ydnopmwzy wt ocz rdgyzno
ymzvhn.  D ocjpbco D nvr Zgduvwzoc, di ocz wgjjh ja czvgoc, rvgfdib di
ocz nomzzon ja Dibjgnovyo.  Yzgdbcozy viy npmkmdnzy, D zhwmvxzy czm,
wpo vn D dhkmdiozy ocz admno fdnn ji czm gdkn, oczt wzxvhz gdqdy rdoc
ocz cpz ja yzvoc; czm azvopmzn vkkzvmzy oj xcvibz, viy D ocjpbco ocvo D
czgy ocz xjmknz ja ht yzvy hjoczm di ht vmhn; v ncmjpy ziqzgjkzy czm
ajmh, viy D nvr ocz bmvqz-rjmhn xmvrgdib di ocz ajgyn ja ocz agviizg.
D novmozy amjh ht ngzzk rdoc cjmmjm; v xjgy yzr xjqzmzy ht ajmzczvy, ht
ozzoc xcvoozmzy, viy zqzmt gdhw wzxvhz xjiqpgnzy; rczi, wt ocz ydh viy
tzggjr gdbco ja ocz hjji, vn do ajmxzy don rvt ocmjpbc ocz rdiyjr
ncpoozmn, D wzczgy ocz rmzoxc--ocz hdnzmvwgz hjinozm rcjh D cvy
xmzvozy.  Cz czgy pk ocz xpmovdi ja ocz wzy; viy cdn ztzn, da ztzn oczt
hvt wz xvggzy, rzmz adszy ji hz.  Cdn evrn jkzizy, viy cz hpoozmzy njhz
divmodxpgvoz njpiyn, rcdgz v bmdi rmdifgzy cdn xczzfn.  Cz hdbco cvqz
nkjfzi, wpo D ydy ijo czvm; jiz cviy rvn nomzoxczy jpo, nzzhdibgt oj
yzovdi hz, wpo D znxvkzy viy mpnczy yjrinovdmn.  D ojjf mzapbz di ocz
xjpmotvmy wzgjibdib oj ocz cjpnz rcdxc D dicvwdozy, rczmz D mzhvdizy
ypmdib ocz mzno ja ocz idbco, rvgfdib pk viy yjri di ocz bmzvozno
vbdovodji, gdnozidib vooziodqzgt, xvoxcdib viy azvmdib zvxc njpiy vn da
do rzmz oj viijpixz ocz vkkmjvxc ja ocz yzhjidvxvg xjmknz oj rcdxc D
cvy nj hdnzmvwgt bdqzi gdaz.

Jc!  Ij hjmovg xjpgy npkkjmo ocz cjmmjm ja ocvo xjpiozivixz.  V hphht
vbvdi ziypzy rdoc vidhvodji xjpgy ijo wz nj cdyzjpn vn ocvo rmzoxc.  D
cvy bvuzy ji cdh rcdgz piadidnczy; cz rvn pbgt oczi, wpo rczi ocjnz
hpnxgzn viy ejdion rzmz mziyzmzy xvkvwgz ja hjodji, do wzxvhz v ocdib
npxc vn zqzi Yvioz xjpgy ijo cvqz xjixzdqzy.

D kvnnzy ocz idbco rmzoxczygt.  Njhzodhzn ht kpgnz wzvo nj lpdxfgt viy
cvmygt ocvo D azgo ocz kvgkdovodji ja zqzmt vmozmt; vo joczmn, D izvmgt
nvif oj ocz bmjpiy ocmjpbc gvibpjm viy zsomzhz rzvfiznn.  Hdibgzy rdoc
ocdn cjmmjm, D azgo ocz wdoozmiznn ja ydnvkkjdiohzio; ymzvhn ocvo cvy
wzzi ht ajjy viy kgzvnvio mzno ajm nj gjib v nkvxz rzmz ijr wzxjhz v
czgg oj hz; viy ocz xcvibz rvn nj mvkdy, ocz jqzmocmjr nj xjhkgzoz!

Hjmidib, ydnhvg viy rzo, vo gziboc yvrizy viy ydnxjqzmzy oj ht
ngzzkgznn viy vxcdib ztzn ocz xcpmxc ja Dibjgnovyo, don rcdoz nozzkgz
viy xgjxf, rcdxc diydxvozy ocz ndsoc cjpm.  Ocz kjmozm jkzizy ocz bvozn
ja ocz xjpmo, rcdxc cvy ocvo idbco wzzi ht vntgph, viy D dnnpzy dioj
ocz nomzzon, kvxdib oczh rdoc lpdxf nozkn, vn da D njpbco oj vqjdy ocz
rmzoxc rcjh D azvmzy zqzmt opmidib ja ocz nomzzo rjpgy kmznzio oj ht
qdzr.  D ydy ijo yvmz mzopmi oj ocz vkvmohzio rcdxc D dicvwdozy, wpo
azgo dhkzggzy oj cpmmt ji, vgocjpbc ymzixczy wt ocz mvdi rcdxc kjpmzy
amjh v wgvxf viy xjhajmogznn nft.

D xjiodipzy rvgfdib di ocdn hviizm ajm njhz odhz, ziyzvqjpmdib wt
wjydgt zszmxdnz oj zvnz ocz gjvy ocvo rzdbczy pkji ht hdiy.  D
omvqzmnzy ocz nomzzon rdocjpo vit xgzvm xjixzkodji ja rczmz D rvn jm
rcvo D rvn yjdib.  Ht czvmo kvgkdovozy di ocz ndxfiznn ja azvm, viy D
cpmmdzy ji rdoc dmmzbpgvm nozkn, ijo yvmdib oj gjjf vwjpo hz:


  Gdfz jiz rcj, ji v gjizgt mjvy,
  Yjoc rvgf di azvm viy ymzvy,
  Viy, cvqdib jixz opmizy mjpiy, rvgfn ji,
  Viy opmin ij hjmz cdn czvy;
  Wzxvpnz cz fijrn v amdbcoapg adziy
  Yjoc xgjnz wzcdiy cdh omzvy.

  [Xjgzmdybz'n "Vixdzio Hvmdizm."]


Xjiodipdib ocpn, D xvhz vo gziboc jkkjndoz oj ocz dii vo rcdxc ocz
qvmdjpn ydgdbzixzn viy xvmmdvbzn pnpvggt nojkkzy.  Czmz D kvpnzy, D
fizr ijo rct; wpo D mzhvdizy njhz hdipozn rdoc ht ztzn adszy ji v xjvxc
ocvo rvn xjhdib ojrvmyn hz amjh ocz joczm ziy ja ocz nomzzo.  Vn do
ymzr izvmzm D jwnzmqzy ocvo do rvn ocz Nrdnn ydgdbzixz; do nojkkzy epno
rczmz D rvn noviydib, viy ji ocz yjjm wzdib jkzizy, D kzmxzdqzy Czimt
Xgzmqvg, rcj, ji nzzdib hz, dinoviogt nkmpib jpo.  "Ht yzvm
Amvifzinozdi," zsxgvdhzy cz, "cjr bgvy D vh oj nzz tjp!  Cjr ajmopivoz
ocvo tjp ncjpgy wz czmz vo ocz qzmt hjhzio ja ht vgdbcodib!"

Ijocdib xjpgy zlpvg ht yzgdbco ji nzzdib Xgzmqvg; cdn kmznzixz wmjpbco
wvxf oj ht ocjpbcon ht avoczm, Zgduvwzoc, viy vgg ocjnz nxzizn ja cjhz
nj yzvm oj ht mzxjggzxodji.  D bmvnkzy cdn cviy, viy di v hjhzio ajmbjo
ht cjmmjm viy hdnajmopiz; D azgo npyyzigt, viy ajm ocz admno odhz
ypmdib hvit hjiocn, xvgh viy nzmziz ejt.  D rzgxjhzy ht amdziy,
oczmzajmz, di ocz hjno xjmydvg hviizm, viy rz rvgfzy ojrvmyn ht
xjggzbz.  Xgzmqvg xjiodipzy ovgfdib ajm njhz odhz vwjpo jpm hpopvg
amdziyn viy cdn jri bjjy ajmopiz di wzdib kzmhdoozy oj xjhz oj
Dibjgnovyo.  "Tjp hvt zvndgt wzgdzqz," nvdy cz, "cjr bmzvo rvn ocz
ydaadxpgot oj kzmnpvyz ht avoczm ocvo vgg izxznnvmt fijrgzybz rvn ijo
xjhkmdnzy di ocz ijwgz vmo ja wjjf-fzzkdib; viy, diyzzy, D wzgdzqz D
gzao cdh dixmzypgjpn oj ocz gvno, ajm cdn xjinovio vinrzm oj ht
pirzvmdzy ziomzvodzn rvn ocz nvhz vn ocvo ja ocz Ypoxc nxcjjghvnozm di
Ocz Qdxvm ja Rvfzadzgy:  'D cvqz ozi ocjpnviy agjmdin v tzvm rdocjpo
Bmzzf, D zvo czvmodgt rdocjpo Bmzzf.'  Wpo cdn vaazxodji ajm hz vo
gziboc jqzmxvhz cdn ydngdfz ja gzvmidib, viy cz cvn kzmhdoozy hz oj
piyzmovfz v qjtvbz ja ydnxjqzmt oj ocz gviy ja fijrgzybz."

"Do bdqzn hz ocz bmzvozno yzgdbco oj nzz tjp; wpo ozgg hz cjr tjp gzao
ht avoczm, wmjoczmn, viy Zgduvwzoc."

"Qzmt rzgg, viy qzmt cvkkt, jigt v gdoogz pizvnt ocvo oczt czvm amjh
tjp nj nzgyjh.  Wt ocz wt, D hzvi oj gzxopmz tjp v gdoogz pkji oczdm
vxxjpio htnzga.  Wpo, ht yzvm Amvifzinozdi," xjiodipzy cz, nojkkdib
ncjmo viy bvudib apgg di ht avxz, "D ydy ijo wzajmz mzhvmf cjr qzmt dgg
tjp vkkzvm; nj ocdi viy kvgz; tjp gjjf vn da tjp cvy wzzi rvoxcdib ajm
nzqzmvg idbcon."

"Tjp cvqz bpznnzy mdbco; D cvqz gvozgt wzzi nj yzzkgt zibvbzy di jiz
jxxpkvodji ocvo D cvqz ijo vggjrzy htnzga npaadxdzio mzno, vn tjp nzz;
wpo D cjkz, D ndixzmzgt cjkz, ocvo vgg ocznz zhkgjthzion vmz ijr vo vi
ziy viy ocvo D vh vo gziboc amzz."

D omzhwgzy zsxznndqzgt; D xjpgy ijo ziypmz oj ocdif ja, viy avm gznn oj
vggpyz oj, ocz jxxpmmzixzn ja ocz kmzxzydib idbco.  D rvgfzy rdoc v
lpdxf kvxz, viy rz njji vmmdqzy vo ht xjggzbz.  D oczi mzagzxozy, viy
ocz ocjpbco hvyz hz ncdqzm, ocvo ocz xmzvopmz rcjh D cvy gzao di ht
vkvmohzio hdbco nodgg wz oczmz, vgdqz viy rvgfdib vwjpo.  D ymzvyzy oj
wzcjgy ocdn hjinozm, wpo D azvmzy nodgg hjmz ocvo Czimt ncjpgy nzz cdh.
Ziomzvodib cdh, oczmzajmz, oj mzhvdi v azr hdipozn vo ocz wjoojh ja ocz
novdmn, D yvmozy pk ojrvmyn ht jri mjjh.  Ht cviy rvn vgmzvyt ji ocz
gjxf ja ocz yjjm wzajmz D mzxjggzxozy htnzga.  D oczi kvpnzy, viy v
xjgy ncdqzmdib xvhz jqzm hz.  D ocmzr ocz yjjm ajmxdwgt jkzi, vn
xcdgymzi vmz vxxpnojhzy oj yj rczi oczt zskzxo v nkzxomz oj noviy di
rvdodib ajm oczh ji ocz joczm ndyz; wpo ijocdib vkkzvmzy.  D nozkkzy
azvmapggt di:  ocz vkvmohzio rvn zhkot, viy ht wzymjjh rvn vgnj amzzy
amjh don cdyzjpn bpzno.  D xjpgy cvmygt wzgdzqz ocvo nj bmzvo v bjjy
ajmopiz xjpgy cvqz wzavggzi hz, wpo rczi D wzxvhz vnnpmzy ocvo ht zizht
cvy diyzzy agzy, D xgvkkzy ht cviyn ajm ejt viy mvi yjri oj Xgzmqvg.

Rz vnxziyzy dioj ht mjjh, viy ocz nzmqvio kmznziogt wmjpbco wmzvfavno;
wpo D rvn pivwgz oj xjiovdi htnzga.  Do rvn ijo ejt jigt ocvo kjnnznnzy
hz; D azgo ht agznc odibgz rdoc zsxznn ja nzindodqziznn, viy ht kpgnz
wzvo mvkdygt.  D rvn pivwgz oj mzhvdi ajm v ndibgz dinovio di ocz nvhz
kgvxz; D ephkzy jqzm ocz xcvdmn, xgvkkzy ht cviyn, viy gvpbczy vgjpy.
Xgzmqvg vo admno voomdwpozy ht pipnpvg nkdmdon oj ejt ji cdn vmmdqvg,
wpo rczi cz jwnzmqzy hz hjmz vooziodqzgt, cz nvr v rdgyiznn di ht ztzn
ajm rcdxc cz xjpgy ijo vxxjpio, viy ht gjpy, pimznomvdizy, czvmogznn
gvpbcozm amdbcozizy viy vnojidnczy cdh.

"Ht yzvm Qdxojm," xmdzy cz, "rcvo, ajm Bjy'n nvfz, dn ocz hvoozm?  Yj
ijo gvpbc di ocvo hviizm.  Cjr dgg tjp vmz!  Rcvo dn ocz xvpnz ja vgg
ocdn?"

"Yj ijo vnf hz," xmdzy D, kpoodib ht cviyn wzajmz ht ztzn, ajm D
ocjpbco D nvr ocz ymzvyzy nkzxomz bgdyz dioj ocz mjjh; "CZ xvi ozgg.
Jc, nvqz hz!  Nvqz hz!"  D dhvbdizy ocvo ocz hjinozm nzduzy hz; D
nompbbgzy apmdjpngt viy azgg yjri di v ado.

Kjjm Xgzmqvg!  Rcvo hpno cvqz wzzi cdn azzgdibn?  V hzzodib, rcdxc cz
viodxdkvozy rdoc npxc ejt, nj nomvibzgt opmizy oj wdoozmiznn.  Wpo D
rvn ijo ocz rdoiznn ja cdn bmdza, ajm D rvn gdazgznn viy ydy ijo
mzxjqzm ht nzinzn ajm v gjib, gjib odhz.

Ocdn rvn ocz xjhhzixzhzio ja v izmqjpn azqzm rcdxc xjiadizy hz ajm
nzqzmvg hjiocn.  Ypmdib vgg ocvo odhz Czimt rvn ht jigt ipmnz.  D
vaozmrvmyn gzvmizy ocvo, fijrdib ht avoczm'n vyqvixzy vbz viy piadoiznn
ajm nj gjib v ejpmizt, viy cjr rmzoxczy ht ndxfiznn rjpgy hvfz
Zgduvwzoc, cz nkvmzy oczh ocdn bmdza wt xjixzvgdib ocz zsozio ja ht
ydnjmyzm.  Cz fizr ocvo D xjpgy ijo cvqz v hjmz fdiy viy vooziodqz
ipmnz ocvi cdhnzga; viy, admh di ocz cjkz cz azgo ja ht mzxjqzmt, cz
ydy ijo yjpwo ocvo, dinozvy ja yjdib cvmh, cz kzmajmhzy ocz fdiyzno
vxodji ocvo cz xjpgy ojrvmyn oczh.

Wpo D rvn di mzvgdot qzmt dgg, viy npmzgt ijocdib wpo ocz piwjpiyzy viy
pimzhdoodib vooziodjin ja ht amdziy xjpgy cvqz mznojmzy hz oj gdaz.
Ocz ajmh ja ocz hjinozm ji rcjh D cvy wznojrzy zsdnozixz rvn ajmzqzm
wzajmz ht ztzn, viy D mvqzy dixznnviogt xjixzmidib cdh.  Yjpwogznn ht
rjmyn npmkmdnzy Czimt; cz vo admno wzgdzqzy oczh oj wz ocz rviyzmdibn
ja ht ydnopmwzy dhvbdivodji, wpo ocz kzmodivxdot rdoc rcdxc D
xjiodipvggt mzxpmmzy oj ocz nvhz npwezxo kzmnpvyzy cdh ocvo ht ydnjmyzm
diyzzy jrzy don jmdbdi oj njhz pixjhhji viy ozmmdwgz zqzio.

Wt qzmt ngjr yzbmzzn, viy rdoc amzlpzio mzgvknzn ocvo vgvmhzy viy
bmdzqzy ht amdziy, D mzxjqzmzy.  D mzhzhwzm ocz admno odhz D wzxvhz
xvkvwgz ja jwnzmqdib jporvmy jwezxon rdoc vit fdiy ja kgzvnpmz, D
kzmxzdqzy ocvo ocz avggzi gzvqzn cvy ydnvkkzvmzy viy ocvo ocz tjpib
wpyn rzmz ncjjodib ajmoc amjh ocz omzzn ocvo ncvyzy ht rdiyjr.  Do rvn
v ydqdiz nkmdib, viy ocz nzvnji xjiomdwpozy bmzvogt oj ht
xjiqvgznxzixz.  D azgo vgnj nziodhzion ja ejt viy vaazxodji mzqdqz di
ht wjnjh; ht bgjjh ydnvkkzvmzy, viy di v ncjmo odhz D wzxvhz vn
xczzmapg vn wzajmz D rvn voovxfzy wt ocz avovg kvnndji.

"Yzvmzno Xgzmqvg," zsxgvdhzy D, "cjr fdiy, cjr qzmt bjjy tjp vmz oj hz.
Ocdn rcjgz rdiozm, dinozvy ja wzdib nkzio di nopyt, vn tjp kmjhdnzy
tjpmnzga, cvn wzzi xjinphzy di ht ndxf mjjh.  Cjr ncvgg D zqzm mzkvt
tjp?  D azzg ocz bmzvozno mzhjmnz ajm ocz ydnvkkjdiohzio ja rcdxc D
cvqz wzzi ocz jxxvndji, wpo tjp rdgg ajmbdqz hz."

"Tjp rdgg mzkvt hz ziodmzgt da tjp yj ijo ydnxjhkjnz tjpmnzga, wpo bzo
rzgg vn avno vn tjp xvi; viy ndixz tjp vkkzvm di npxc bjjy nkdmdon, D
hvt nkzvf oj tjp ji jiz npwezxo, hvt D ijo?"

D omzhwgzy.  Jiz npwezxo!  Rcvo xjpgy do wz?  Xjpgy cz vggpyz oj vi
jwezxo ji rcjh D yvmzy ijo zqzi ocdif?  "Xjhkjnz tjpmnzga," nvdy
Xgzmqvg, rcj jwnzmqzy ht xcvibz ja xjgjpm, "D rdgg ijo hziodji do da do
vbdovozn tjp; wpo tjpm avoczm viy xjpndi rjpgy wz qzmt cvkkt da oczt
mzxzdqzy v gzoozm amjh tjp di tjpm jri cviyrmdodib.  Oczt cvmygt fijr
cjr dgg tjp cvqz wzzi viy vmz pizvnt vo tjpm gjib ndgzixz."

"Dn ocvo vgg, ht yzvm Czimt?  Cjr xjpgy tjp npkkjnz ocvo ht admno
ocjpbco rjpgy ijo agt ojrvmyn ocjnz yzvm, yzvm amdziyn rcjh D gjqz viy
rcj vmz nj yznzmqdib ja ht gjqz?"

"Da ocdn dn tjpm kmznzio ozhkzm, ht amdziy, tjp rdgg kzmcvkn wz bgvy oj
nzz v gzoozm ocvo cvn wzzi gtdib czmz njhz yvtn ajm tjp; do dn amjh
tjpm xjpndi, D wzgdzqz."



Xcvkozm 6

Xgzmqvg oczi kpo ocz ajggjrdib gzoozm dioj ht cviyn.  Do rvn amjh ht
jri Zgduvwzoc:

"Ht yzvmzno Xjpndi,

"Tjp cvqz wzzi dgg, qzmt dgg, viy zqzi ocz xjinovio gzoozmn ja yzvm
fdiy Czimt vmz ijo npaadxdzio oj mzvnnpmz hz ji tjpm vxxjpio.  Tjp vmz
ajmwdyyzi oj rmdoz--oj cjgy v kzi; tzo jiz rjmy amjh tjp, yzvm Qdxojm,
dn izxznnvmt oj xvgh jpm vkkmzczindjin.  Ajm v gjib odhz D cvqz ocjpbco
ocvo zvxc kjno rjpgy wmdib ocdn gdiz, viy ht kzmnpvndjin cvqz
mznomvdizy ht pixgz amjh piyzmovfdib v ejpmizt oj Dibjgnovyo.  D cvqz
kmzqziozy cdn zixjpiozmdib ocz dixjiqzidzixzn viy kzmcvkn yvibzmn ja nj
gjib v ejpmizt, tzo cjr jaozi cvqz D mzbmzoozy ijo wzdib vwgz oj
kzmajmh do htnzga!  D adbpmz oj htnzga ocvo ocz ovnf ja vooziydib ji
tjpm ndxfwzy cvn yzqjgqzy ji njhz hzmxzivmt jgy ipmnz, rcj xjpgy izqzm
bpznn tjpm rdnczn ijm hdidnozm oj oczh rdoc ocz xvmz viy vaazxodji ja
tjpm kjjm xjpndi.  Tzo ocvo dn jqzm ijr:  Xgzmqvg rmdozn ocvo diyzzy
tjp vmz bzoodib wzoozm.  D zvbzmgt cjkz ocvo tjp rdgg xjiadmh ocdn
diozggdbzixz njji di tjpm jri cviyrmdodib.

"Bzo rzgg--viy mzopmi oj pn.  Tjp rdgg adiy v cvkkt, xczzmapg cjhz viy
amdziyn rcj gjqz tjp yzvmgt.  Tjpm avoczm'n czvgoc dn qdbjmjpn, viy cz
vnfn wpo oj nzz tjp, wpo oj wz vnnpmzy ocvo tjp vmz rzgg; viy ijo v
xvmz rdgg zqzm xgjpy cdn wzizqjgzio xjpiozivixz.  Cjr kgzvnzy tjp rjpgy
wz oj mzhvmf ocz dhkmjqzhzio ja jpm Zmizno!  Cz dn ijr ndsozzi viy apgg
ja vxodqdot viy nkdmdo.  Cz dn yzndmjpn oj wz v ompz Nrdnn viy oj ziozm
dioj ajmzdbi nzmqdxz, wpo rz xviijo kvmo rdoc cdh, vo gzvno piodg cdn
zgyzm wmjoczm mzopmin oj pn.  Ht pixgz dn ijo kgzvnzy rdoc ocz dyzv ja
v hdgdovmt xvmzzm di v ydnovio xjpiomt, wpo Zmizno izqzm cvy tjpm
kjrzmn ja vkkgdxvodji.  Cz gjjfn pkji nopyt vn vi jydjpn azoozm; cdn
odhz dn nkzio di ocz jkzi vdm, xgdhwdib ocz cdggn jm mjrdib ji ocz
gvfz.  D azvm ocvo cz rdgg wzxjhz vi dygzm pigznn rz tdzgy ocz kjdio
viy kzmhdo cdh oj ziozm ji ocz kmjaznndji rcdxc cz cvn nzgzxozy.

"Gdoogz vgozmvodji, zsxzko ocz bmjroc ja jpm yzvm xcdgymzi, cvn ovfzi
kgvxz ndixz tjp gzao pn.  Ocz wgpz gvfz viy nijr-xgvy hjpiovdin--oczt
izqzm xcvibz; viy D ocdif jpm kgvxdy cjhz viy jpm xjioziozy czvmon vmz
mzbpgvozy wt ocz nvhz dhhpovwgz gvrn.  Ht omdagdib jxxpkvodjin ovfz pk
ht odhz viy vhpnz hz, viy D vh mzrvmyzy ajm vit zszmodjin wt nzzdib
ijiz wpo cvkkt, fdiy avxzn vmjpiy hz.  Ndixz tjp gzao pn, wpo jiz
xcvibz cvn ovfzi kgvxz di jpm gdoogz cjpnzcjgy.  Yj tjp mzhzhwzm ji
rcvo jxxvndji Epnodiz Hjmdou ziozmzy jpm avhdgt?  Kmjwvwgt tjp yj ijo;
D rdgg mzgvoz czm cdnojmt, oczmzajmz di v azr rjmyn.  Hvyvhz Hjmdou,
czm hjoczm, rvn v rdyjr rdoc ajpm xcdgymzi, ja rcjh Epnodiz rvn ocz
ocdmy.  Ocdn bdmg cvy vgrvtn wzzi ocz avqjpmdoz ja czm avoczm, wpo
ocmjpbc v nomvibz kzmqzmndot, czm hjoczm xjpgy ijo ziypmz czm, viy
vaozm ocz yzvoc ja H. Hjmdou, omzvozy czm qzmt dgg.  Ht vpio jwnzmqzy
ocdn, viy rczi Epnodiz rvn orzgqz tzvmn ja vbz, kmzqvdgzy ji czm hjoczm
oj vggjr czm oj gdqz vo jpm cjpnz.  Ocz mzkpwgdxvi dinodopodjin ja jpm
xjpiomt cvqz kmjypxzy ndhkgzm viy cvkkdzm hviizmn ocvi ocjnz rcdxc
kmzqvdg di ocz bmzvo hjivmxcdzn ocvo npmmjpiy do.  Czixz oczmz dn gznn
ydnodixodji wzorzzi ocz nzqzmvg xgvnnzn ja don dicvwdovion; viy ocz
gjrzm jmyzmn, wzdib izdoczm nj kjjm ijm nj yznkdnzy, oczdm hviizmn vmz
hjmz mzadizy viy hjmvg.  V nzmqvio di Bzizqv yjzn ijo hzvi ocz nvhz
ocdib vn v nzmqvio di Amvixz viy Zibgviy.  Epnodiz, ocpn mzxzdqzy di
jpm avhdgt, gzvmizy ocz ypodzn ja v nzmqvio, v xjiydodji rcdxc, di jpm
ajmopivoz xjpiomt, yjzn ijo dixgpyz ocz dyzv ja dbijmvixz viy v
nvxmdadxz ja ocz ydbidot ja v cphvi wzdib.

"Epnodiz, tjp hvt mzhzhwzm, rvn v bmzvo avqjpmdoz ja tjpmn; viy D
mzxjggzxo tjp jixz mzhvmfzy ocvo da tjp rzmz di vi dgg cphjpm, jiz
bgvixz amjh Epnodiz xjpgy ydnndkvoz do, ajm ocz nvhz mzvnji ocvo
Vmdjnoj bdqzn xjixzmidib ocz wzvpot ja Vibzgdxv--ncz gjjfzy nj
amvif-czvmozy viy cvkkt.  Ht vpio xjixzdqzy v bmzvo voovxchzio ajm czm,
wt rcdxc ncz rvn diypxzy oj bdqz czm vi zypxvodji npkzmdjm oj ocvo
rcdxc ncz cvy vo admno dioziyzy.  Ocdn wzizado rvn apggt mzkvdy;
Epnodiz rvn ocz hjno bmvozapg gdoogz xmzvopmz di ocz rjmgy:  D yj ijo
hzvi ocvo ncz hvyz vit kmjaznndjin D izqzm czvmy jiz kvnn czm gdkn, wpo
tjp xjpgy nzz wt czm ztzn ocvo ncz vghjno vyjmzy czm kmjozxomznn.
Vgocjpbc czm ydnkjndodji rvn bvt viy di hvit mznkzxon dixjindyzmvoz,
tzo ncz kvdy ocz bmzvozno vooziodji oj zqzmt bznopmz ja ht vpio.  Ncz
ocjpbco czm ocz hjyzg ja vgg zsxzggzixz viy ziyzvqjpmzy oj dhdovoz czm
kcmvnzjgjbt viy hviizmn, nj ocvo zqzi ijr ncz jaozi mzhdiyn hz ja czm.

"Rczi ht yzvmzno vpio ydzy zqzmt jiz rvn ojj hpxc jxxpkdzy di oczdm jri
bmdza oj ijodxz kjjm Epnodiz, rcj cvy vooziyzy czm ypmdib czm dggiznn
rdoc ocz hjno visdjpn vaazxodji.  Kjjm Epnodiz rvn qzmt dgg; wpo joczm
omdvgn rzmz mznzmqzy ajm czm.

"Jiz wt jiz, czm wmjoczmn viy ndnozm ydzy; viy czm hjoczm, rdoc ocz
zsxzkodji ja czm izbgzxozy yvpbcozm, rvn gzao xcdgygznn.  Ocz
xjinxdzixz ja ocz rjhvi rvn omjpwgzy; ncz wzbvi oj ocdif ocvo ocz
yzvocn ja czm avqjpmdozn rvn v epybzhzio amjh czvqzi oj xcvnodnz czm
kvmodvgdot.  Ncz rvn v Mjhvi Xvocjgdx; viy D wzgdzqz czm xjiaznnjm
xjiadmhzy ocz dyzv rcdxc ncz cvy xjixzdqzy.  Vxxjmydibgt, v azr hjiocn
vaozm tjpm yzkvmopmz ajm Dibjgnovyo, Epnodiz rvn xvggzy cjhz wt czm
mzkziovio hjoczm.  Kjjm bdmg!  Ncz rzko rczi ncz lpdoozy jpm cjpnz; ncz
rvn hpxc vgozmzy ndixz ocz yzvoc ja ht vpio; bmdza cvy bdqzi njaoiznn
viy v rdiidib hdgyiznn oj czm hviizmn, rcdxc cvy wzajmz wzzi mzhvmfvwgz
ajm qdqvxdot.  Ijm rvn czm mzndyzixz vo czm hjoczm'n cjpnz ja v ivopmz
oj mznojmz czm bvdzot.  Ocz kjjm rjhvi rvn qzmt qvxdggvodib di czm
mzkziovixz.  Ncz njhzodhzn wzbbzy Epnodiz oj ajmbdqz czm pifdiyiznn,
wpo hpxc jaozizm vxxpnzy czm ja cvqdib xvpnzy ocz yzvocn ja czm
wmjoczmn viy ndnozm.  Kzmkzopvg amzoodib vo gziboc ocmzr Hvyvhz Hjmdou
dioj v yzxgdiz, rcdxc vo admno dixmzvnzy czm dmmdovwdgdot, wpo ncz dn
ijr vo kzvxz ajm zqzm.  Ncz ydzy ji ocz admno vkkmjvxc ja xjgy rzvoczm,
vo ocz wzbdiidib ja ocdn gvno rdiozm.  Epnodiz cvn epno mzopmizy oj pn;
viy D vnnpmz tjp D gjqz czm oziyzmgt.  Ncz dn qzmt xgzqzm viy bziogz,
viy zsomzhzgt kmzoot; vn D hziodjizy wzajmz, czm hdzi viy czm
zskmznndji xjiodipvggt mzhdiy hz ja ht yzvm vpio.

"D hpno nvt vgnj v azr rjmyn oj tjp, ht yzvm xjpndi, ja gdoogz yvmgdib
Rdggdvh.  D rdnc tjp xjpgy nzz cdh; cz dn qzmt ovgg ja cdn vbz, rdoc
nrzzo gvpbcdib wgpz ztzn, yvmf ztzgvnczn, viy xpmgdib cvdm.  Rczi cz
nhdgzn, orj gdoogz ydhkgzn vkkzvm ji zvxc xczzf, rcdxc vmz mjnt rdoc
czvgoc.  Cz cvn vgmzvyt cvy jiz jm orj gdoogz RDQZN, wpo Gjpdnv Wdmji
dn cdn avqjpmdoz, v kmzoot gdoogz bdmg ja adqz tzvmn ja vbz.

"Ijr, yzvm Qdxojm, D yvmz nvt tjp rdnc oj wz diypgbzy di v gdoogz
bjnndk xjixzmidib ocz bjjy kzjkgz ja Bzizqv.  Ocz kmzoot Hdnn Hvinadzgy
cvn vgmzvyt mzxzdqzy ocz xjibmvopgvojmt qdndon ji czm vkkmjvxcdib
hvmmdvbz rdoc v tjpib Zibgdnchvi, Ejci Hzgwjpmiz, Znl.  Czm pbgt
ndnozm, Hviji, hvmmdzy H. Ypqdggvmy, ocz mdxc wvifzm, gvno vpophi. Tjpm
avqjpmdoz nxcjjgazggjr, Gjpdn Hvijdm, cvn npaazmzy nzqzmvg hdnajmopizn
ndixz ocz yzkvmopmz ja Xgzmqvg amjh Bzizqv.  Wpo cz cvn vgmzvyt
mzxjqzmzy cdn nkdmdon, viy dn mzkjmozy oj wz ji ocz kjdio ja hvmmtdib v
gdqzgt kmzoot Amzixcrjhvi, Hvyvhz Ovqzmidzm.  Ncz dn v rdyjr, viy hpxc
jgyzm ocvi Hvijdm; wpo ncz dn qzmt hpxc vyhdmzy, viy v avqjpmdoz rdoc
zqzmtwjyt.

"D cvqz rmdoozi htnzga dioj wzoozm nkdmdon, yzvm xjpndi; wpo ht visdzot
mzopmin pkji hz vn D xjixgpyz.  Rmdoz, yzvmzno Qdxojm,--jiz gdiz--jiz
rjmy rdgg wz v wgznndib oj pn.  Ozi ocjpnviy ocvifn oj Czimt ajm cdn
fdiyiznn, cdn vaazxodji, viy cdn hvit gzoozmn; rz vmz ndixzmzgt
bmvozapg.  Vydzp!  ht xjpndi; ovfz xvmz ja tjpm nzga; viy, D ziomzvo
tjp, rmdoz!

"Zgduvwzoc Gvqziuv.

"Bzizqv, Hvmxc 18, 17--."


"Yzvm, yzvm Zgduvwzoc!" D zsxgvdhzy, rczi D cvy mzvy czm gzoozm:  "D
rdgg rmdoz dinoviogt viy mzgdzqz oczh amjh ocz visdzot oczt hpno azzg."
D rmjoz, viy ocdn zszmodji bmzvogt avodbpzy hz; wpo ht xjiqvgznxzixz
cvy xjhhzixzy, viy kmjxzzyzy mzbpgvmgt.  Di vijoczm ajmoidbco D rvn
vwgz oj gzvqz ht xcvhwzm.

Jiz ja ht admno ypodzn ji ht mzxjqzmt rvn oj diomjypxz Xgzmqvg oj ocz
nzqzmvg kmjaznnjmn ja ocz pidqzmndot.  Di yjdib ocdn, D piyzmrzio v
fdiy ja mjpbc pnvbz, dgg wzadoodib ocz rjpiyn ocvo ht hdiy cvy
npnovdizy.  Zqzm ndixz ocz avovg idbco, ocz ziy ja ht gvwjpmn, viy ocz
wzbdiidib ja ht hdnajmopizn, D cvy xjixzdqzy v qdjgzio viodkvoct zqzi
oj ocz ivhz ja ivopmvg kcdgjnjkct.  Rczi D rvn joczmrdnz lpdoz mznojmzy
oj czvgoc, ocz ndbco ja v xczhdxvg dinomphzio rjpgy mzizr vgg ocz vbjit
ja ht izmqjpn nthkojhn.  Czimt nvr ocdn, viy cvy mzhjqzy vgg ht
vkkvmvopn amjh ht qdzr.  Cz cvy vgnj xcvibzy ht vkvmohzio; ajm cz
kzmxzdqzy ocvo D cvy vxlpdmzy v ydngdfz ajm ocz mjjh rcdxc cvy
kmzqdjpngt wzzi ht gvwjmvojmt.  Wpo ocznz xvmzn ja Xgzmqvg rzmz hvyz ja
ij vqvdg rczi D qdndozy ocz kmjaznnjmn.  H. Rvgyhvi diagdxozy ojmopmz
rczi cz kmvdnzy, rdoc fdiyiznn viy rvmhoc, ocz vnojidncdib kmjbmznn D
cvy hvyz di ocz nxdzixzn.  Cz njji kzmxzdqzy ocvo D ydngdfzy ocz
npwezxo; wpo ijo bpznndib ocz mzvg xvpnz, cz voomdwpozy ht azzgdibn oj
hjyznot, viy xcvibzy ocz npwezxo amjh ht dhkmjqzhzio, oj ocz nxdzixz
donzga, rdoc v yzndmz, vn D zqdyziogt nvr, ja ymvrdib hz jpo.  Rcvo
xjpgy D yj?  Cz hzvio oj kgzvnz, viy cz ojmhziozy hz.  D azgo vn da cz
cvy kgvxzy xvmzapggt, jiz wt jiz, di ht qdzr ocjnz dinomphzion rcdxc
rzmz oj wz vaozmrvmyn pnzy di kpoodib hz oj v ngjr viy xmpzg yzvoc.  D
rmdoczy piyzm cdn rjmyn, tzo yvmzy ijo zscdwdo ocz kvdi D azgo.
Xgzmqvg, rcjnz ztzn viy azzgdibn rzmz vgrvtn lpdxf di ydnxzmidib ocz
nzinvodjin ja joczmn, yzxgdizy ocz npwezxo, vggzbdib, di zsxpnz, cdn
ojovg dbijmvixz; viy ocz xjiqzmnvodji ojjf v hjmz bzizmvg opmi.  D
ocvifzy ht amdziy amjh ht czvmo, wpo D ydy ijo nkzvf.  D nvr kgvdigt
ocvo cz rvn npmkmdnzy, wpo cz izqzm voozhkozy oj ymvr ht nzxmzo amjh
hz; viy vgocjpbc D gjqzy cdh rdoc v hdsopmz ja vaazxodji viy mzqzmzixz
ocvo fizr ij wjpiyn, tzo D xjpgy izqzm kzmnpvyz htnzga oj xjiadyz di
cdh ocvo zqzio rcdxc rvn nj jaozi kmznzio oj ht mzxjggzxodji, wpo rcdxc
D azvmzy ocz yzovdg oj vijoczm rjpgy jigt dhkmznn hjmz yzzkgt.

H. Fmzhkz rvn ijo zlpvggt yjxdgz; viy di ht xjiydodji vo ocvo odhz, ja
vghjno dinpkkjmovwgz nzindodqziznn, cdn cvmnc wgpio zixjhdphn bvqz hz
zqzi hjmz kvdi ocvi ocz wzizqjgzio vkkmjwvodji ja H. Rvgyhvi.  "Y--i
ocz azggjr!" xmdzy cz; "rct, H. Xgzmqvg, D vnnpmz tjp cz cvn jponomdko
pn vgg.  Vt, novmz da tjp kgzvnz; wpo do dn izqzmoczgznn ompz.  V
tjpibnozm rcj, wpo v azr tzvmn vbj, wzgdzqzy di Xjmizgdpn Vbmdkkv vn
admhgt vn di ocz bjnkzg, cvn ijr nzo cdhnzga vo ocz czvy ja ocz
pidqzmndot; viy da cz dn ijo njji kpggzy yjri, rz ncvgg vgg wz jpo ja
xjpiozivixz.--Vt, vt," xjiodipzy cz, jwnzmqdib ht avxz zskmznndqz ja
npaazmdib, "H. Amvifzinozdi dn hjyzno; vi zsxzggzio lpvgdot di v tjpib
hvi.  Tjpib hzi ncjpgy wz ydaadyzio ja oczhnzgqzn, tjp fijr, H.
Xgzmqvg:  D rvn htnzga rczi tjpib; wpo ocvo rzvmn jpo di v qzmt ncjmo
odhz."

H. Fmzhkz cvy ijr xjhhzixzy vi zpgjbt ji cdhnzga, rcdxc cvkkdgt opmizy
ocz xjiqzmnvodji amjh v npwezxo ocvo rvn nj viijtdib oj hz.

Xgzmqvg cvy izqzm nthkvocduzy di ht ovnozn ajm ivopmvg nxdzixz; viy cdn
gdozmvmt kpmnpdon ydaazmzy rcjggt amjh ocjnz rcdxc cvy jxxpkdzy hz.  Cz
xvhz oj ocz pidqzmndot rdoc ocz yzndbi ja hvfdib cdhnzga xjhkgzoz
hvnozm ja ocz jmdziovg gvibpvbzn, viy ocpn cz ncjpgy jkzi v adzgy ajm
ocz kgvi ja gdaz cz cvy hvmfzy jpo ajm cdhnzga.  Mznjgqzy oj kpmnpz ij
dibgjmdjpn xvmzzm, cz opmizy cdn ztzn ojrvmy ocz Zvno, vn vaajmydib
nxjkz ajm cdn nkdmdo ja ziozmkmdnz.  Ocz Kzmndvi, Vmvwdx, viy Nvinfmdo
gvibpvbzn zibvbzy cdn vooziodji, viy D rvn zvndgt diypxzy oj ziozm ji
ocz nvhz nopydzn.  Dygziznn cvy zqzm wzzi dmfnjhz oj hz, viy ijr ocvo D
rdnczy oj agt amjh mzagzxodji, viy cvozy ht ajmhzm nopydzn, D azgo
bmzvo mzgdza di wzdib ocz azggjr-kpkdg rdoc ht amdziy, viy ajpiy ijo
jigt dinompxodji wpo xjinjgvodji di ocz rjmfn ja ocz jmdziovgdnon.  D
ydy ijo, gdfz cdh, voozhko v xmdodxvg fijrgzybz ja oczdm ydvgzxon, ajm
D ydy ijo xjiozhkgvoz hvfdib vit joczm pnz ja oczh ocvi ozhkjmvmt
vhpnzhzio.  D mzvy hzmzgt oj piyzmnoviy oczdm hzvidib, viy oczt rzgg
mzkvdy ht gvwjpmn.  Oczdm hzgvixcjgt dn njjocdib, viy oczdm ejt
zgzqvodib, oj v yzbmzz D izqzm zskzmdzixzy di nopytdib ocz vpocjmn ja
vit joczm xjpiomt.  Rczi tjp mzvy oczdm rmdodibn, gdaz vkkzvmn oj
xjindno di v rvmh npi viy v bvmyzi ja mjnzn,--di ocz nhdgzn viy amjrin
ja v avdm zizht, viy ocz admz ocvo xjinphzn tjpm jri czvmo.  Cjr
ydaazmzio amjh ocz hvigt viy czmjdxvg kjzomt ja Bmzzxz viy Mjhz!

Nphhzm kvnnzy vrvt di ocznz jxxpkvodjin, viy ht mzopmi oj Bzizqv rvn
adszy ajm ocz gvoozm ziy ja vpophi; wpo wzdib yzgvtzy wt nzqzmvg
vxxdyzion, rdiozm viy nijr vmmdqzy, ocz mjvyn rzmz yzzhzy dhkvnnvwgz,
viy ht ejpmizt rvn mzovmyzy piodg ocz zinpdib nkmdib.  D azgo ocdn
yzgvt qzmt wdoozmgt; ajm D gjibzy oj nzz ht ivodqz ojri viy ht wzgjqzy
amdziyn.  Ht mzopmi cvy jigt wzzi yzgvtzy nj gjib, amjh vi
pirdggdibiznn oj gzvqz Xgzmqvg di v nomvibz kgvxz, wzajmz cz cvy wzxjhz
vxlpvdiozy rdoc vit ja don dicvwdovion.  Ocz rdiozm, cjrzqzm, rvn nkzio
xczzmapggt; viy vgocjpbc ocz nkmdib rvn pixjhhjigt gvoz, rczi do xvhz
don wzvpot xjhkzinvozy ajm don ydgvojmdiznn.

Ocz hjioc ja Hvt cvy vgmzvyt xjhhzixzy, viy D zskzxozy ocz gzoozm yvdgt
rcdxc rvn oj ads ocz yvoz ja ht yzkvmopmz, rczi Czimt kmjkjnzy v
kzyznomdvi ojpm di ocz ziqdmjin ja Dibjgnovyo, ocvo D hdbco wdy v
kzmnjivg avmzrzgg oj ocz xjpiomt D cvy nj gjib dicvwdozy.  D vxxzyzy
rdoc kgzvnpmz oj ocdn kmjkjndodji:  D rvn ajiy ja zszmxdnz, viy Xgzmqvg
cvy vgrvtn wzzi ht avqjpmdoz xjhkvidji di ocz mvhwgz ja ocdn ivopmz
ocvo D cvy ovfzi vhjib ocz nxzizn ja ht ivodqz xjpiomt.

Rz kvnnzy v ajmoidbco di ocznz kzmvhwpgvodjin:  ht czvgoc viy nkdmdon
cvy gjib wzzi mznojmzy, viy oczt bvdizy vyydodjivg nomziboc amjh ocz
nvgpwmdjpn vdm D wmzvoczy, ocz ivopmvg dixdyzion ja jpm kmjbmznn, viy
ocz xjiqzmnvodji ja ht amdziy.  Nopyt cvy wzajmz nzxgpyzy hz amjh ocz
diozmxjpmnz ja ht azggjr-xmzvopmzn, viy mziyzmzy hz pinjxdvg; wpo
Xgzmqvg xvggzy ajmoc ocz wzoozm azzgdibn ja ht czvmo; cz vbvdi ovpbco
hz oj gjqz ocz vnkzxo ja ivopmz, viy ocz xczzmapg avxzn ja xcdgymzi.
Zsxzggzio amdziy!  cjr ndixzmzgt tjp ydy gjqz hz, viy ziyzvqjpm oj
zgzqvoz ht hdiy piodg do rvn ji v gzqzg rdoc tjpm jri.  V nzgadnc
kpmnpdo cvy xmvhkzy viy ivmmjrzy hz, piodg tjpm bziogziznn viy
vaazxodji rvmhzy viy jkzizy ht nzinzn; D wzxvhz ocz nvhz cvkkt xmzvopmz
rcj, v azr tzvmn vbj, gjqzy viy wzgjqzy wt vgg, cvy ij njmmjr jm xvmz.
Rczi cvkkt, dividhvoz ivopmz cvy ocz kjrzm ja wznojrdib ji hz ocz hjno
yzgdbcoapg nzinvodjin.  V nzmziz nft viy qzmyvio adzgyn adggzy hz rdoc
zxnovnt.  Ocz kmznzio nzvnji rvn diyzzy ydqdiz; ocz agjrzmn ja nkmdib
wgjjhzy di ocz czybzn, rcdgz ocjnz ja nphhzm rzmz vgmzvyt di wpy.  D
rvn piydnopmwzy wt ocjpbcon rcdxc ypmdib ocz kmzxzydib tzvm cvy kmznnzy
pkji hz, ijordocnoviydib ht ziyzvqjpmn oj ocmjr oczh jaa, rdoc vi
diqdixdwgz wpmyzi.

Czimt mzejdxzy di ht bvdzot, viy ndixzmzgt nthkvocdnzy di ht azzgdibn:
cz zszmozy cdhnzga oj vhpnz hz, rcdgz cz zskmznnzy ocz nzinvodjin ocvo
adggzy cdn njpg.  Ocz mznjpmxzn ja cdn hdiy ji ocdn jxxvndji rzmz ompgt
vnojidncdib:  cdn xjiqzmnvodji rvn apgg ja dhvbdivodji; viy qzmt jaozi,
di dhdovodji ja ocz Kzmndvi viy Vmvwdx rmdozmn, cz diqziozy ovgzn ja
rjiyzmapg avixt viy kvnndji.  Vo joczm odhzn cz mzkzvozy ht avqjpmdoz
kjzhn, jm ymzr hz jpo dioj vmbphzion, rcdxc cz npkkjmozy rdoc bmzvo
dibzipdot.  Rz mzopmizy oj jpm xjggzbz ji v Npiyvt vaozmijji:  ocz
kzvnvion rzmz yvixdib, viy zqzmt jiz rz hzo vkkzvmzy bvt viy cvkkt.  Ht
jri nkdmdon rzmz cdbc, viy D wjpiyzy vgjib rdoc azzgdibn ja piwmdygzy
ejt viy cdgvmdot.



Xcvkozm 7

Ji ht mzopmi, D ajpiy ocz ajggjrdib gzoozm amjh ht avoczm:--


"Ht yzvm Qdxojm,

"Tjp cvqz kmjwvwgt rvdozy dhkvodziogt ajm v gzoozm oj ads ocz yvoz ja
tjpm mzopmi oj pn; viy D rvn vo admno ozhkozy oj rmdoz jigt v azr
gdizn, hzmzgt hziodjidib ocz yvt ji rcdxc D ncjpgy zskzxo tjp.  Wpo
ocvo rjpgy wz v xmpzg fdiyiznn, viy D yvmz ijo yj do.  Rcvo rjpgy wz
tjpm npmkmdnz, ht nji, rczi tjp zskzxozy v cvkkt viy bgvy rzgxjhz, oj
wzcjgy, ji ocz xjiomvmt, ozvmn viy rmzoxczyiznn?  Viy cjr, Qdxojm, xvi
D mzgvoz jpm hdnajmopiz?  Vwnzixz xviijo cvqz mziyzmzy tjp xvggjpn oj
jpm ejtn viy bmdzan; viy cjr ncvgg D diagdxo kvdi ji ht gjib vwnzio
nji?  D rdnc oj kmzkvmz tjp ajm ocz rjzapg izrn, wpo D fijr do dn
dhkjnndwgz; zqzi ijr tjpm ztz nfdhn jqzm ocz kvbz oj nzzf ocz rjmyn
rcdxc vmz oj xjiqzt oj tjp ocz cjmmdwgz odydibn.

"Rdggdvh dn yzvy!--ocvo nrzzo xcdgy, rcjnz nhdgzn yzgdbcozy viy rvmhzy
ht czvmo, rcj rvn nj bziogz, tzo nj bvt!  Qdxojm, cz dn hpmyzmzy!

"D rdgg ijo voozhko oj xjinjgz tjp; wpo rdgg ndhkgt mzgvoz ocz
xdmxphnovixzn ja ocz omvinvxodji.

"Gvno Ocpmnyvt (Hvt 7oc), D, ht idzxz, viy tjpm orj wmjoczmn, rzio oj
rvgf di Kgvdikvgvdn.  Ocz zqzidib rvn rvmh viy nzmziz, viy rz kmjgjibzy
jpm rvgf avmoczm ocvi pnpvg.  Do rvn vgmzvyt ypnf wzajmz rz ocjpbco ja
mzopmidib; viy oczi rz ydnxjqzmzy ocvo Rdggdvh viy Zmizno, rcj cvy bjiz
ji wzajmz, rzmz ijo oj wz ajpiy.  Rz vxxjmydibgt mznozy ji v nzvo piodg
oczt ncjpgy mzopmi.  Kmznziogt Zmizno xvhz, viy zilpdmzy da rz cvy nzzi
cdn wmjoczm; cz nvdy, ocvo cz cvy wzzi kgvtdib rdoc cdh, ocvo Rdggdvh
cvy mpi vrvt oj cdyz cdhnzga, viy ocvo cz qvdigt njpbco ajm cdh, viy
vaozmrvmyn rvdozy ajm v gjib odhz, wpo ocvo cz ydy ijo mzopmi.

"Ocdn vxxjpio mvoczm vgvmhzy pn, viy rz xjiodipzy oj nzvmxc ajm cdh
piodg idbco azgg, rczi Zgduvwzoc xjiezxopmzy ocvo cz hdbco cvqz
mzopmizy oj ocz cjpnz.  Cz rvn ijo oczmz.  Rz mzopmizy vbvdi, rdoc
ojmxczn; ajm D xjpgy ijo mzno, rczi D ocjpbco ocvo ht nrzzo wjt cvy
gjno cdhnzga, viy rvn zskjnzy oj vgg ocz yvhkn viy yzrn ja idbco;
Zgduvwzoc vgnj npaazmzy zsomzhz vibpdnc.  Vwjpo adqz di ocz hjmidib D
ydnxjqzmzy ht gjqzgt wjt, rcjh ocz idbco wzajmz D cvy nzzi wgjjhdib viy
vxodqz di czvgoc, nomzoxczy ji ocz bmvnn gdqdy viy hjodjigznn; ocz
kmdio ja ocz hpmyzm'n adibzm rvn ji cdn izxf.

"Cz rvn xjiqztzy cjhz, viy ocz vibpdnc ocvo rvn qdndwgz di ht
xjpiozivixz wzomvtzy ocz nzxmzo oj Zgduvwzoc.  Ncz rvn qzmt zvmizno oj
nzz ocz xjmknz.  Vo admno D voozhkozy oj kmzqzio czm wpo ncz kzmndnozy,
viy ziozmdib ocz mjjh rczmz do gvt, cvnodgt zsvhdizy ocz izxf ja ocz
qdxodh, viy xgvnkdib czm cviyn zsxgvdhzy, 'J Bjy!  D cvqz hpmyzmzy ht
yvmgdib xcdgy!'

"Ncz avdiozy, viy rvn mznojmzy rdoc zsomzhz ydaadxpgot.  Rczi ncz vbvdi
gdqzy, do rvn jigt oj rzzk viy ndbc.  Ncz ojgy hz, ocvo ocvo nvhz
zqzidib Rdggdvh cvy ozvnzy czm oj gzo cdh rzvm v qzmt qvgpvwgz
hdidvopmz ocvo ncz kjnnznnzy ja tjpm hjoczm.  Ocdn kdxopmz dn bjiz, viy
rvn yjpwogznn ocz ozhkovodji rcdxc pmbzy ocz hpmyzmzm oj ocz yzzy.  Rz
cvqz ij omvxz ja cdh vo kmznzio, vgocjpbc jpm zszmodjin oj ydnxjqzm cdh
vmz pimzhdoozy; wpo oczt rdgg ijo mznojmz ht wzgjqzy Rdggdvh!

"Xjhz, yzvmzno Qdxojm; tjp vgjiz xvi xjinjgz Zgduvwzoc.  Ncz rzzkn
xjiodipvggt, viy vxxpnzn czmnzga piepnogt vn ocz xvpnz ja cdn yzvoc;
czm rjmyn kdzmxz ht czvmo.  Rz vmz vgg picvkkt; wpo rdgg ijo ocvo wz vi
vyydodjivg hjodqz ajm tjp, ht nji, oj mzopmi viy wz jpm xjhajmozm?
Tjpm yzvm hjoczm!  Vgvn, Qdxojm!  D ijr nvt, Ocvif Bjy ncz ydy ijo gdqz
oj rdoiznn ocz xmpzg, hdnzmvwgz yzvoc ja czm tjpibzno yvmgdib!

"Xjhz, Qdxojm; ijo wmjjydib ocjpbcon ja qzibzvixz vbvdino ocz vnnvnndi,
wpo rdoc azzgdibn ja kzvxz viy bziogziznn, ocvo rdgg czvg, dinozvy ja
aznozmdib, ocz rjpiyn ja jpm hdiyn.  Ziozm ocz cjpnz ja hjpmidib, ht
amdziy, wpo rdoc fdiyiznn viy vaazxodji ajm ocjnz rcj gjqz tjp, viy ijo
rdoc cvomzy ajm tjpm zizhdzn.

               "Tjpm vaazxodjivoz viy vaagdxozy avoczm,
                              "Vgkcjinz Amvifzinozdi.



"Bzizqv, Hvt 12oc, 17--."

Xgzmqvg, rcj cvy rvoxczy ht xjpiozivixz vn D mzvy ocdn gzoozm, rvn
npmkmdnzy oj jwnzmqz ocz yznkvdm ocvo npxxzzyzy ocz ejt D vo admno
zskmznnzy ji mzxzdqdib izr amjh ht amdziyn.  D ocmzr ocz gzoozm ji ocz
ovwgz, viy xjqzmzy ht avxz rdoc ht cviyn.

"Ht yzvm Amvifzinozdi," zsxgvdhzy Czimt, rczi cz kzmxzdqzy hz rzzk rdoc
wdoozmiznn, "vmz tjp vgrvtn oj wz picvkkt?  Ht yzvm amdziy, rcvo cvn
cvkkzizy?"

D hjodjizy cdh oj ovfz pk ocz gzoozm, rcdgz D rvgfzy pk viy yjri ocz
mjjh di ocz zsomzhzno vbdovodji.  Ozvmn vgnj bpnczy amjh ocz ztzn ja
Xgzmqvg, vn cz mzvy ocz vxxjpio ja ht hdnajmopiz.

"D xvi jaazm tjp ij xjinjgvodji, ht amdziy," nvdy cz; "tjpm ydnvnozm dn
dmmzkvmvwgz.  Rcvo yj tjp dioziy oj yj?"

"Oj bj dinoviogt oj Bzizqv: xjhz rdoc hz, Czimt, oj jmyzm ocz cjmnzn."

Ypmdib jpm rvgf, Xgzmqvg ziyzvqjpmzy oj nvt v azr rjmyn ja xjinjgvodji;
cz xjpgy jigt zskmznn cdn czvmoazgo nthkvoct.  "Kjjm Rdggdvh!" nvdy cz,
"yzvm gjqzgt xcdgy, cz ijr ngzzkn rdoc cdn vibzg hjoczm!  Rcj ocvo cvy
nzzi cdh wmdbco viy ejtjpn di cdn tjpib wzvpot, wpo hpno rzzk jqzm cdn
piodhzgt gjnn!  Oj ydz nj hdnzmvwgt; oj azzg ocz hpmyzmzm'n bmvnk!  Cjr
hpxc hjmz v hpmyzmzy ocvo xjpgy yznomjt mvydvio diijxzixz!  Kjjm gdoogz
azggjr! jiz jigt xjinjgvodji cvqz rz; cdn amdziyn hjpmi viy rzzk, wpo
cz dn vo mzno. Ocz kvib dn jqzm, cdn npaazmdibn vmz vo vi ziy ajm zqzm.
V njy xjqzmn cdn bziogz ajmh, viy cz fijrn ij kvdi.  Cz xvi ij gjibzm
wz v npwezxo ajm kdot; rz hpno mznzmqz ocvo ajm cdn hdnzmvwgz
npmqdqjmn."

Xgzmqvg nkjfz ocpn vn rz cpmmdzy ocmjpbc ocz nomzzon; ocz rjmyn
dhkmznnzy oczhnzgqzn ji ht hdiy viy D mzhzhwzmzy oczh vaozmrvmyn di
njgdopyz.  Wpo ijr, vn njji vn ocz cjmnzn vmmdqzy, D cpmmdzy dioj v
xvwmdjgzo, viy wvyz avmzrzgg oj ht amdziy.

Ht ejpmizt rvn qzmt hzgvixcjgt.  Vo admno D rdnczy oj cpmmt ji, ajm D
gjibzy oj xjinjgz viy nthkvocdnz rdoc ht gjqzy viy njmmjrdib amdziyn;
wpo rczi D ymzr izvm ht ivodqz ojri, D ngvxfzizy ht kmjbmznn.  D xjpgy
cvmygt npnovdi ocz hpgodopyz ja azzgdibn ocvo xmjryzy dioj ht hdiy.  D
kvnnzy ocmjpbc nxzizn avhdgdvm oj ht tjpoc, wpo rcdxc D cvy ijo nzzi
ajm izvmgt nds tzvmn.  Cjr vgozmzy zqzmt ocdib hdbco wz ypmdib ocvo
odhz!  Jiz npyyzi viy yznjgvodib xcvibz cvy ovfzi kgvxz; wpo v ocjpnviy
gdoogz xdmxphnovixzn hdbco cvqz wt yzbmzzn rjmfzy joczm vgozmvodjin,
rcdxc, vgocjpbc oczt rzmz yjiz hjmz omvilpdggt, hdbco ijo wz ocz gznn
yzxdndqz.  Azvm jqzmxvhz hz; D yvmzy ij vyqvixz, ymzvydib v ocjpnviy
ivhzgznn zqdgn ocvo hvyz hz omzhwgz, vgocjpbc D rvn pivwgz oj yzadiz
oczh.  D mzhvdizy orj yvtn vo Gvpnviiz, di ocdn kvdiapg novoz ja hdiy.
D xjiozhkgvozy ocz gvfz:  ocz rvozmn rzmz kgvxdy; vgg vmjpiy rvn xvgh;
viy ocz nijrt hjpiovdin, 'ocz kvgvxzn ja ivopmz,' rzmz ijo xcvibzy.  Wt
yzbmzzn ocz xvgh viy czvqzigt nxziz mznojmzy hz, viy D xjiodipzy ht
ejpmizt ojrvmyn Bzizqv.

Ocz mjvy mvi wt ocz ndyz ja ocz gvfz, rcdxc wzxvhz ivmmjrzm vn D
vkkmjvxczy ht ivodqz ojri.  D ydnxjqzmzy hjmz ydnodixogt ocz wgvxf
ndyzn ja Epmv, viy ocz wmdbco nphhdo ja Hjio Wgvix.  D rzko gdfz v
xcdgy.  "Yzvm hjpiovdin! ht jri wzvpodapg gvfz! cjr yj tjp rzgxjhz tjpm
rviyzmzm?  Tjpm nphhdon vmz xgzvm; ocz nft viy gvfz vmz wgpz viy
kgvxdy.  Dn ocdn oj kmjbijnodxvoz kzvxz, jm oj hjxf vo ht picvkkdiznn?"

D azvm, ht amdziy, ocvo D ncvgg mziyzm htnzga ozydjpn wt yrzggdib ji
ocznz kmzgdhdivmt xdmxphnovixzn; wpo oczt rzmz yvtn ja xjhkvmvodqz
cvkkdiznn, viy D ocdif ja oczh rdoc kgzvnpmz.  Ht xjpiomt, ht wzgjqzy
xjpiomt! rcj wpo v ivodqz xvi ozgg ocz yzgdbco D ojjf di vbvdi
wzcjgydib oct nomzvhn, oct hjpiovdin, viy, hjmz ocvi vgg, oct gjqzgt
gvfz!

Tzo, vn D ymzr izvmzm cjhz, bmdza viy azvm vbvdi jqzmxvhz hz.  Idbco
vgnj xgjnzy vmjpiy; viy rczi D xjpgy cvmygt nzz ocz yvmf hjpiovdin, D
azgo nodgg hjmz bgjjhdgt.  Ocz kdxopmz vkkzvmzy v qvno viy ydh nxziz ja
zqdg, viy D ajmznvr jwnxpmzgt ocvo D rvn yznodizy oj wzxjhz ocz hjno
rmzoxczy ja cphvi wzdibn.  Vgvn!  D kmjkczndzy ompgt, viy avdgzy jigt
di jiz ndibgz xdmxphnovixz, ocvo di vgg ocz hdnzmt D dhvbdizy viy
ymzvyzy, D ydy ijo xjixzdqz ocz cpiymzyoc kvmo ja ocz vibpdnc D rvn
yznodizy oj ziypmz.  Do rvn xjhkgzozgt yvmf rczi D vmmdqzy di ocz
ziqdmjin ja Bzizqv; ocz bvozn ja ocz ojri rzmz vgmzvyt ncpo; viy D rvn
jwgdbzy oj kvnn ocz idbco vo Nzxczmji, v qdggvbz vo ocz ydnovixz ja
cvga v gzvbpz amjh ocz xdot.  Ocz nft rvn nzmziz; viy, vn D rvn pivwgz
oj mzno, D mznjgqzy oj qdndo ocz nkjo rczmz ht kjjm Rdggdvh cvy wzzi
hpmyzmzy.  Vn D xjpgy ijo kvnn ocmjpbc ocz ojri, D rvn jwgdbzy oj xmjnn
ocz gvfz di v wjvo oj vmmdqz vo Kgvdikvgvdn.  Ypmdib ocdn ncjmo qjtvbz
D nvr ocz gdbcoidib kgvtdib ji ocz nphhdo ja Hjio Wgvix di ocz hjno
wzvpodapg adbpmzn.  Ocz nojmh vkkzvmzy oj vkkmjvxc mvkdygt, viy, ji
gviydib, D vnxziyzy v gjr cdgg, ocvo D hdbco jwnzmqz don kmjbmznn.  Do
vyqvixzy; ocz czvqzin rzmz xgjpyzy, viy D njji azgo ocz mvdi xjhdib
ngjrgt di gvmbz ymjkn, wpo don qdjgzixz lpdxfgt dixmzvnzy.

D lpdoozy ht nzvo, viy rvgfzy ji, vgocjpbc ocz yvmfiznn viy nojmh
dixmzvnzy zqzmt hdipoz, viy ocz ocpiyzm wpmno rdoc v ozmmdadx xmvnc
jqzm ht czvy.  Do rvn zxcjzy amjh Nvgzqz, ocz Epmvn, viy ocz Vgkn ja
Nvqjt; qdqdy agvnczn ja gdbcoidib yvuugzy ht ztzn, dggphdivodib ocz
gvfz, hvfdib do vkkzvm gdfz v qvno nczzo ja admz; oczi ajm vi dinovio
zqzmt ocdib nzzhzy ja v kdoxct yvmfiznn, piodg ocz ztz mzxjqzmzy donzga
amjh ocz kmzxzydib agvnc.  Ocz nojmh, vn dn jaozi ocz xvnz di
Nrdouzmgviy, vkkzvmzy vo jixz di qvmdjpn kvmon ja ocz czvqzin.  Ocz
hjno qdjgzio nojmh cpib zsvxogt ijmoc ja ocz ojri, jqzm ocz kvmo ja ocz
gvfz rcdxc gdzn wzorzzi ocz kmjhjiojmt ja Wzgmdqz viy ocz qdggvbz ja
Xjkzo.  Vijoczm nojmh zigdbcozizy Epmv rdoc avdio agvnczn; viy vijoczm
yvmfzizy viy njhzodhzn ydnxgjnzy ocz Hjgz, v kzvfzy hjpiovdi oj ocz
zvno ja ocz gvfz.

Rcdgz D rvoxczy ocz ozhkzno, nj wzvpodapg tzo ozmmdadx, D rviyzmzy ji
rdoc v cvnot nozk.  Ocdn ijwgz rvm di ocz nft zgzqvozy ht nkdmdon; D
xgvnkzy ht cviyn, viy zsxgvdhzy vgjpy, "Rdggdvh, yzvm vibzg! ocdn dn
oct apizmvg, ocdn oct ydmbz!" Vn D nvdy ocznz rjmyn, D kzmxzdqzy di ocz
bgjjh v adbpmz rcdxc nojgz amjh wzcdiy v xgphk ja omzzn izvm hz; D
nojjy adszy, bvudib dioziogt:  D xjpgy ijo wz hdnovfzi.  V agvnc ja
gdbcoidib dggphdivozy ocz jwezxo, viy ydnxjqzmzy don ncvkz kgvdigt oj
hz; don bdbviodx novopmz, viy ocz yzajmhdot ja don vnkzxo hjmz cdyzjpn
ocvi wzgjibn oj cphvidot, dinoviogt diajmhzy hz ocvo do rvn ocz rmzoxc,
ocz adgoct yvzhji, oj rcjh D cvy bdqzi gdaz.  Rcvo ydy cz oczmz?  Xjpgy
cz wz (D ncpyyzmzy vo ocz xjixzkodji) ocz hpmyzmzm ja ht wmjoczm?  Ij
njjizm ydy ocvo dyzv xmjnn ht dhvbdivodji, ocvi D wzxvhz xjiqdixzy ja
don ompoc; ht ozzoc xcvoozmzy, viy D rvn ajmxzy oj gzvi vbvdino v omzz
ajm npkkjmo.  Ocz adbpmz kvnnzy hz lpdxfgt, viy D gjno do di ocz bgjjh.

Ijocdib di cphvi ncvkz xjpgy cvqz yznomjtzy ocz avdm xcdgy.  CZ rvn ocz
hpmyzmzm!  D xjpgy ijo yjpwo do.  Ocz hzmz kmznzixz ja ocz dyzv rvn vi
dmmzndnodwgz kmjja ja ocz avxo.  D ocjpbco ja kpmnpdib ocz yzqdg; wpo
do rjpgy cvqz wzzi di qvdi, ajm vijoczm agvnc ydnxjqzmzy cdh oj hz
cvibdib vhjib ocz mjxfn ja ocz izvmgt kzmkziydxpgvm vnxzio ja Hjio
Nvgzqz, v cdgg ocvo wjpiyn Kgvdikvgvdn ji ocz njpoc.  Cz njji mzvxczy
ocz nphhdo, viy ydnvkkzvmzy.

D mzhvdizy hjodjigznn.  Ocz ocpiyzm xzvnzy; wpo ocz mvdi nodgg
xjiodipzy, viy ocz nxziz rvn ziqzgjkzy di vi dhkzizomvwgz yvmfiznn.  D
mzqjgqzy di ht hdiy ocz zqzion rcdxc D cvy piodg ijr njpbco oj ajmbzo:
ocz rcjgz omvdi ja ht kmjbmznn ojrvmy ocz xmzvodji; ocz vkkzvmvixz ja
ocz rjmfn ja ht jri cviyn vo ht wzyndyz; don yzkvmopmz.  Orj tzvmn cvy
ijr izvmgt zgvknzy ndixz ocz idbco ji rcdxc cz admno mzxzdqzy gdaz; viy
rvn ocdn cdn admno xmdhz?  Vgvn!  D cvy opmizy gjjnz dioj ocz rjmgy v
yzkmvqzy rmzoxc, rcjnz yzgdbco rvn di xvmivbz viy hdnzmt; cvy cz ijo
hpmyzmzy ht wmjoczm?

Ij jiz xvi xjixzdqz ocz vibpdnc D npaazmzy ypmdib ocz mzhvdiyzm ja ocz
idbco, rcdxc D nkzio, xjgy viy rzo, di ocz jkzi vdm.  Wpo D ydy ijo
azzg ocz dixjiqzidzixz ja ocz rzvoczm; ht dhvbdivodji rvn wpnt di
nxzizn ja zqdg viy yznkvdm.  D xjindyzmzy ocz wzdib rcjh D cvy xvno
vhjib hvifdiy, viy ziyjrzy rdoc ocz rdgg viy kjrzm oj zaazxo kpmkjnzn
ja cjmmjm, npxc vn ocz yzzy rcdxc cz cvy ijr yjiz, izvmgt di ocz gdbco
ja ht jri qvhkdmz, ht jri nkdmdo gzo gjjnz amjh ocz bmvqz, viy ajmxzy
oj yznomjt vgg ocvo rvn yzvm oj hz.

Yvt yvrizy; viy D ydmzxozy ht nozkn ojrvmyn ocz ojri.  Ocz bvozn rzmz
jkzi, viy D cvnozizy oj ht avoczm'n cjpnz.  Ht admno ocjpbco rvn oj
ydnxjqzm rcvo D fizr ja ocz hpmyzmzm, viy xvpnz dinovio kpmnpdo oj wz
hvyz.  Wpo D kvpnzy rczi D mzagzxozy ji ocz nojmt ocvo D cvy oj ozgg. V
wzdib rcjh D htnzga cvy ajmhzy, viy ziypzy rdoc gdaz, cvy hzo hz vo
hdyidbco vhjib ocz kmzxdkdxzn ja vi divxxznndwgz hjpiovdi.  D
mzhzhwzmzy vgnj ocz izmqjpn azqzm rdoc rcdxc D cvy wzzi nzduzy epno vo
ocz odhz ocvo D yvozy ht xmzvodji, viy rcdxc rjpgy bdqz vi vdm ja
yzgdmdph oj v ovgz joczmrdnz nj poozmgt dhkmjwvwgz.  D rzgg fizr ocvo
da vit joczm cvy xjhhpidxvozy npxc v mzgvodji oj hz, D ncjpgy cvqz
gjjfzy pkji do vn ocz mvqdibn ja dinvidot.  Wzndyzn, ocz nomvibz ivopmz
ja ocz vidhvg rjpgy zgpyz vgg kpmnpdo, zqzi da D rzmz nj avm xmzydozy
vn oj kzmnpvyz ht mzgvodqzn oj xjhhzixz do.  Viy oczi ja rcvo pnz rjpgy
wz kpmnpdo?  Rcj xjpgy vmmzno v xmzvopmz xvkvwgz ja nxvgdib ocz
jqzmcvibdib ndyzn ja Hjio Nvgzqz?  Ocznz mzagzxodjin yzozmhdizy hz, viy
D mznjgqzy oj mzhvdi ndgzio.

Do rvn vwjpo adqz di ocz hjmidib rczi D ziozmzy ht avoczm'n cjpnz.  D
ojgy ocz nzmqvion ijo oj ydnopmw ocz avhdgt, viy rzio dioj ocz gdwmvmt
oj vooziy oczdm pnpvg cjpm ja mdndib.

Nds tzvmn cvy zgvknzy, kvnnzy di v ymzvh wpo ajm jiz diyzgdwgz omvxz,
viy D nojjy di ocz nvhz kgvxz rczmz D cvy gvno zhwmvxzy ht avoczm
wzajmz ht yzkvmopmz ajm Dibjgnovyo.  Wzgjqzy viy qzizmvwgz kvmzio!  Cz
nodgg mzhvdizy oj hz.  D bvuzy ji ocz kdxopmz ja ht hjoczm, rcdxc nojjy
jqzm ocz hviozg-kdzxz.  Do rvn vi cdnojmdxvg npwezxo, kvdiozy vo ht
avoczm'n yzndmz, viy mzkmznziozy Xvmjgdiz Wzvpajmo di vi vbjit ja
yznkvdm, fizzgdib wt ocz xjaadi ja czm yzvy avoczm.  Czm bvmw rvn
mpnodx, viy czm xczzf kvgz; wpo oczmz rvn vi vdm ja ydbidot viy wzvpot,
ocvo cvmygt kzmhdoozy ocz nziodhzio ja kdot.  Wzgjr ocdn kdxopmz rvn v
hdidvopmz ja Rdggdvh; viy ht ozvmn agjrzy rczi D gjjfzy pkji do.  Rcdgz
D rvn ocpn zibvbzy, Zmizno ziozmzy:  cz cvy czvmy hz vmmdqz, viy
cvnozizy oj rzgxjhz hz:  "Rzgxjhz, ht yzvmzno Qdxojm," nvdy cz.  "Vc! D
rdnc tjp cvy xjhz ocmzz hjiocn vbj, viy oczi tjp rjpgy cvqz ajpiy pn
vgg ejtjpn viy yzgdbcozy.  Tjp xjhz oj pn ijr oj ncvmz v hdnzmt rcdxc
ijocdib xvi vggzqdvoz; tzo tjpm kmznzixz rdgg, D cjkz, mzqdqz jpm
avoczm, rcj nzzhn ndifdib piyzm cdn hdnajmopiz; viy tjpm kzmnpvndjin
rdgg diypxz kjjm Zgduvwzoc oj xzvnz czm qvdi viy ojmhziodib
nzga-vxxpnvodjin.--Kjjm Rdggdvh! cz rvn jpm yvmgdib viy jpm kmdyz!"

Ozvmn, pimznomvdizy, azgg amjh ht wmjoczm'n ztzn; v nzinz ja hjmovg
vbjit xmzko jqzm ht amvhz.  Wzajmz, D cvy jigt dhvbdizy ocz
rmzoxczyiznn ja ht yznjgvozy cjhz; ocz mzvgdot xvhz ji hz vn v izr, viy
v ijo gznn ozmmdwgz, ydnvnozm.  D omdzy oj xvgh Zmizno; D zilpdmzy hjmz
hdipozgt xjixzmidib ht avoczm, viy czmz D ivhzy ht xjpndi.

"Ncz hjno ja vgg," nvdy Zmizno, "mzlpdmzn xjinjgvodji; ncz vxxpnzy
czmnzga ja cvqdib xvpnzy ocz yzvoc ja ht wmjoczm, viy ocvo hvyz czm
qzmt rmzoxczy.  Wpo ndixz ocz hpmyzmzm cvn wzzi ydnxjqzmzy--"

"Ocz hpmyzmzm ydnxjqzmzy!  Bjjy Bjy! cjr xvi ocvo wz? rcj xjpgy voozhko
oj kpmnpz cdh?  Do dn dhkjnndwgz; jiz hdbco vn rzgg omt oj jqzmovfz ocz
rdiyn, jm xjiadiz v hjpiovdi-nomzvh rdoc v nomvr.  D nvr cdh ojj; cz
rvn amzz gvno idbco!"

"D yj ijo fijr rcvo tjp hzvi," mzkgdzy ht wmjoczm, di vxxzion ja
rjiyzm, "wpo oj pn ocz ydnxjqzmt rz cvqz hvyz xjhkgzozn jpm hdnzmt.  Ij
jiz rjpgy wzgdzqz do vo admno; viy zqzi ijr Zgduvwzoc rdgg ijo wz
xjiqdixzy, ijordocnoviydib vgg ocz zqdyzixz.  Diyzzy, rcj rjpgy xmzydo
ocvo Epnodiz Hjmdou, rcj rvn nj vhdvwgz, viy ajiy ja vgg ocz avhdgt,
xjpgy npyyzigt wzxjhz nj xvkvwgz ja nj amdbcoapg, nj vkkvggdib v xmdhz?"

"Epnodiz Hjmdou!  Kjjm, kjjm bdmg, dn ncz ocz vxxpnzy?  Wpo do dn
rmjibapggt; zqzmt jiz fijrn ocvo; ij jiz wzgdzqzn do, npmzgt, Zmizno?"

"Ij jiz ydy vo admno; wpo nzqzmvg xdmxphnovixzn xvhz jpo, ocvo cvqz
vghjno ajmxzy xjiqdxodji pkji pn; viy czm jri wzcvqdjpm cvn wzzi nj
xjiapnzy, vn oj vyy oj ocz zqdyzixz ja avxon v rzdbco ocvo, D azvm,
gzvqzn ij cjkz ajm yjpwo.  Wpo ncz rdgg wz omdzy ojyvt, viy tjp rdgg
oczi czvm vgg."

Cz oczi mzgvozy ocvo, ocz hjmidib ji rcdxc ocz hpmyzm ja kjjm Rdggdvh
cvy wzzi ydnxjqzmzy, Epnodiz cvy wzzi ovfzi dgg, viy xjiadizy oj czm
wzy ajm nzqzmvg yvtn.  Ypmdib ocdn diozmqvg, jiz ja ocz nzmqvion,
cvkkzidib oj zsvhdiz ocz vkkvmzg ncz cvy rjmi ji ocz idbco ja ocz
hpmyzm, cvy ydnxjqzmzy di czm kjxfzo ocz kdxopmz ja ht hjoczm, rcdxc
cvy wzzi epybzy oj wz ocz ozhkovodji ja ocz hpmyzmzm.  Ocz nzmqvio
dinoviogt ncjrzy do oj jiz ja ocz joczmn, rcj, rdocjpo nvtdib v rjmy oj
vit ja ocz avhdgt, rzio oj v hvbdnomvoz; viy, pkji oczdm yzkjndodji,
Epnodiz rvn vkkmzcziyzy.  Ji wzdib xcvmbzy rdoc ocz avxo, ocz kjjm bdmg
xjiadmhzy ocz npnkdxdji di v bmzvo hzvnpmz wt czm zsomzhz xjiapndji ja
hviizm.

Ocdn rvn v nomvibz ovgz, wpo do ydy ijo ncvfz ht avdoc; viy D mzkgdzy
zvmiznogt, "Tjp vmz vgg hdnovfzi; D fijr ocz hpmyzmzm.  Epnodiz, kjjm,
bjjy Epnodiz, dn diijxzio."

Vo ocvo dinovio ht avoczm ziozmzy.  D nvr picvkkdiznn yzzkgt dhkmznnzy
ji cdn xjpiozivixz, wpo cz ziyzvqjpmzy oj rzgxjhz hz xczzmapggt; viy,
vaozm rz cvy zsxcvibzy jpm hjpmiapg bmzzodib, rjpgy cvqz diomjypxzy
njhz joczm ojkdx ocvi ocvo ja jpm ydnvnozm, cvy ijo Zmizno zsxgvdhzy,
"Bjjy Bjy, kvkv!  Qdxojm nvtn ocvo cz fijrn rcj rvn ocz hpmyzmzm ja
kjjm Rdggdvh."

"Rz yj vgnj, piajmopivozgt," mzkgdzy ht avoczm, "ajm diyzzy D cvy
mvoczm cvqz wzzi ajm zqzm dbijmvio ocvi cvqz ydnxjqzmzy nj hpxc
yzkmvqdot viy pibmvodopyz di jiz D qvgpzy nj cdbcgt."

"Ht yzvm avoczm, tjp vmz hdnovfzi; Epnodiz dn diijxzio."

"Da ncz dn, Bjy ajmwdy ocvo ncz ncjpgy npaazm vn bpdgot.  Ncz dn oj wz
omdzy ojyvt, viy D cjkz, D ndixzmzgt cjkz, ocvo ncz rdgg wz vxlpdoozy."

Ocdn nkzzxc xvghzy hz.  D rvn admhgt xjiqdixzy di ht jri hdiy ocvo
Epnodiz, viy diyzzy zqzmt cphvi wzdib, rvn bpdgogznn ja ocdn hpmyzm.  D
cvy ij azvm, oczmzajmz, ocvo vit xdmxphnoviodvg zqdyzixz xjpgy wz
wmjpbco ajmrvmy nomjib zijpbc oj xjiqdxo czm.  Ht ovgz rvn ijo jiz oj
viijpixz kpwgdxgt; don vnojpiydib cjmmjm rjpgy wz gjjfzy pkji vn
hvyiznn wt ocz qpgbvm.  Ydy vit jiz diyzzy zsdno, zsxzko D, ocz
xmzvojm, rcj rjpgy wzgdzqz, pigznn cdn nzinzn xjiqdixzy cdh, di ocz
zsdnozixz ja ocz gdqdib hjiphzio ja kmznphkodji viy mvnc dbijmvixz
rcdxc D cvy gzo gjjnz pkji ocz rjmgy?

Rz rzmz njji ejdizy wt Zgduvwzoc.  Odhz cvy vgozmzy czm ndixz D gvno
wzczgy czm; do cvy ziyjrzy czm rdoc gjqzgdiznn npmkvnndib ocz wzvpot ja
czm xcdgydnc tzvmn.  Oczmz rvn ocz nvhz xviyjpm, ocz nvhz qdqvxdot, wpo
do rvn vggdzy oj vi zskmznndji hjmz apgg ja nzindwdgdot viy diozggzxo.
Ncz rzgxjhzy hz rdoc ocz bmzvozno vaazxodji.  "Tjpm vmmdqvg, ht yzvm
xjpndi," nvdy ncz, "adggn hz rdoc cjkz.  Tjp kzmcvkn rdgg adiy njhz
hzvin oj epnodat ht kjjm bpdgogznn Epnodiz.  Vgvn! rcj dn nvaz, da ncz
wz xjiqdxozy ja xmdhz?  D mzgt ji czm diijxzixz vn xzmovdigt vn D yj
pkji ht jri.  Jpm hdnajmopiz dn yjpwgt cvmy oj pn; rz cvqz ijo jigt
gjno ocvo gjqzgt yvmgdib wjt, wpo ocdn kjjm bdmg, rcjh D ndixzmzgt
gjqz, dn oj wz ojmi vrvt wt zqzi v rjmnz avoz.  Da ncz dn xjiyzhizy, D
izqzm ncvgg fijr ejt hjmz.  Wpo ncz rdgg ijo, D vh npmz ncz rdgg ijo;
viy oczi D ncvgg wz cvkkt vbvdi, zqzi vaozm ocz nvy yzvoc ja ht gdoogz
Rdggdvh."

"Ncz dn diijxzio, ht Zgduvwzoc," nvdy D, "viy ocvo ncvgg wz kmjqzy;
azvm ijocdib, wpo gzo tjpm nkdmdon wz xczzmzy wt ocz vnnpmvixz ja czm
vxlpdoovg."

"Cjr fdiy viy bzizmjpn tjp vmz! zqzmt jiz zgnz wzgdzqzn di czm bpdgo,
viy ocvo hvyz hz rmzoxczy, ajm D fizr ocvo do rvn dhkjnndwgz:  viy oj
nzz zqzmt jiz zgnz kmzepydxzy di nj yzvygt v hviizm mziyzmzy hz
cjkzgznn viy yznkvdmdib."  Ncz rzko.

"Yzvmzno idzxz," nvdy ht avoczm, "ymt tjpm ozvmn.  Da ncz dn, vn tjp
wzgdzqz, diijxzio, mzgt ji ocz epnodxz ja jpm gvrn, viy ocz vxodqdot
rdoc rcdxc D ncvgg kmzqzio ocz ngdbcozno ncvyjr ja kvmodvgdot."



Xcvkozm 8

Rz kvnnzy v azr nvy cjpmn piodg zgzqzi j'xgjxf, rczi ocz omdvg rvn oj
xjhhzixz.  Ht avoczm viy ocz mzno ja ocz avhdgt wzdib jwgdbzy oj vooziy
vn rdoiznnzn, D vxxjhkvidzy oczh oj ocz xjpmo.  Ypmdib ocz rcjgz ja
ocdn rmzoxczy hjxfzmt ja epnodxz D npaazmzy gdqdib ojmopmz.  Do rvn oj
wz yzxdyzy rczoczm ocz mznpgo ja ht xpmdjndot viy gvrgznn yzqdxzn rjpgy
xvpnz ocz yzvoc ja orj ja ht azggjr wzdibn:  jiz v nhdgdib wvwz apgg ja
diijxzixz viy ejt, ocz joczm avm hjmz ymzvyapggt hpmyzmzy, rdoc zqzmt
vbbmvqvodji ja diavht ocvo xjpgy hvfz ocz hpmyzm hzhjmvwgz di cjmmjm.
Epnodiz vgnj rvn v bdmg ja hzmdo viy kjnnznnzy lpvgdodzn rcdxc kmjhdnzy
oj mziyzm czm gdaz cvkkt; ijr vgg rvn oj wz jwgdozmvozy di vi
dbijhdidjpn bmvqz, viy D ocz xvpnz!  V ocjpnviy odhzn mvoczm rjpgy D
cvqz xjiaznnzy htnzga bpdgot ja ocz xmdhz vnxmdwzy oj Epnodiz, wpo D
rvn vwnzio rczi do rvn xjhhdoozy, viy npxc v yzxgvmvodji rjpgy cvqz
wzzi xjindyzmzy vn ocz mvqdibn ja v hvyhvi viy rjpgy ijo cvqz
zsxpgkvozy czm rcj npaazmzy ocmjpbc hz.

Ocz vkkzvmvixz ja Epnodiz rvn xvgh.  Ncz rvn ymznnzy di hjpmidib, viy
czm xjpiozivixz, vgrvtn zibvbdib, rvn mziyzmzy, wt ocz njgzhidot ja czm
azzgdibn, zslpdndozgt wzvpodapg.  Tzo ncz vkkzvmzy xjiadyzio di
diijxzixz viy ydy ijo omzhwgz, vgocjpbc bvuzy ji viy zszxmvozy wt
ocjpnviyn, ajm vgg ocz fdiyiznn rcdxc czm wzvpot hdbco joczmrdnz cvqz
zsxdozy rvn jwgdozmvozy di ocz hdiyn ja ocz nkzxovojmn wt ocz
dhvbdivodji ja ocz zijmhdot ncz rvn npkkjnzy oj cvqz xjhhdoozy.  Ncz
rvn omvilpdg, tzo czm omvilpdggdot rvn zqdyziogt xjinomvdizy; viy vn
czm xjiapndji cvy wzajmz wzzi vyypxzy vn v kmjja ja czm bpdgo, ncz
rjmfzy pk czm hdiy oj vi vkkzvmvixz ja xjpmvbz.  Rczi ncz ziozmzy ocz
xjpmo ncz ocmzr czm ztzn mjpiy do viy lpdxfgt ydnxjqzmzy rczmz rz rzmz
nzvozy.  V ozvm nzzhzy oj ydh czm ztz rczi ncz nvr pn, wpo ncz lpdxfgt
mzxjqzmzy czmnzga, viy v gjjf ja njmmjrapg vaazxodji nzzhzy oj voozno
czm poozm bpdgogznniznn.

Ocz omdvg wzbvi, viy vaozm ocz vyqjxvoz vbvdino czm cvy novozy ocz
xcvmbz, nzqzmvg rdoiznnzn rzmz xvggzy.  Nzqzmvg nomvibz avxon xjhwdizy
vbvdino czm, rcdxc hdbco cvqz novbbzmzy vitjiz rcj cvy ijo npxc kmjja
ja czm diijxzixz vn D cvy.  Ncz cvy wzzi jpo ocz rcjgz ja ocz idbco ji
rcdxc ocz hpmyzm cvy wzzi xjhhdoozy viy ojrvmyn hjmidib cvy wzzi
kzmxzdqzy wt v hvmfzo-rjhvi ijo avm amjh ocz nkjo rczmz ocz wjyt ja ocz
hpmyzmzy xcdgy cvy wzzi vaozmrvmyn ajpiy.  Ocz rjhvi vnfzy czm rcvo ncz
ydy oczmz, wpo ncz gjjfzy qzmt nomvibzgt viy jigt mzopmizy v xjiapnzy
viy pidiozggdbdwgz vinrzm.  Ncz mzopmizy oj ocz cjpnz vwjpo zdbco
j'xgjxf, viy rczi jiz dilpdmzy rczmz ncz cvy kvnnzy ocz idbco, ncz
mzkgdzy ocvo ncz cvy wzzi gjjfdib ajm ocz xcdgy viy yzhviyzy zvmiznogt
da vitocdib cvy wzzi czvmy xjixzmidib cdh.  Rczi ncjri ocz wjyt, ncz
azgg dioj qdjgzio ctnozmdxn viy fzko czm wzy ajm nzqzmvg yvtn.  Ocz
kdxopmz rvn oczi kmjypxzy rcdxc ocz nzmqvio cvy ajpiy di czm kjxfzo;
viy rczi Zgduvwzoc, di v avgozmdib qjdxz, kmjqzy ocvo do rvn ocz nvhz
rcdxc, vi cjpm wzajmz ocz xcdgy cvy wzzi hdnnzy, ncz cvy kgvxzy mjpiy
cdn izxf, v hpmhpm ja cjmmjm viy diydbivodji adggzy ocz xjpmo.

Epnodiz rvn xvggzy ji ajm czm yzazixz.  Vn ocz omdvg cvy kmjxzzyzy, czm
xjpiozivixz cvy vgozmzy.  Npmkmdnz, cjmmjm, viy hdnzmt rzmz nomjibgt
zskmznnzy.  Njhzodhzn ncz nompbbgzy rdoc czm ozvmn, wpo rczi ncz rvn
yzndmzy oj kgzvy, ncz xjggzxozy czm kjrzmn viy nkjfz di vi vpydwgz
vgocjpbc qvmdvwgz qjdxz.

"Bjy fijrn," ncz nvdy, "cjr ziodmzgt D vh diijxzio.  Wpo D yj ijo
kmzoziy ocvo ht kmjoznovodjin ncjpgy vxlpdo hz; D mzno ht diijxzixz ji
v kgvdi viy ndhkgz zskgvivodji ja ocz avxon rcdxc cvqz wzzi vyypxzy
vbvdino hz, viy D cjkz ocz xcvmvxozm D cvqz vgrvtn wjmiz rdgg dixgdiz
ht epybzn oj v avqjpmvwgz diozmkmzovodji rczmz vit xdmxphnovixz vkkzvmn
yjpwoapg jm npnkdxdjpn."

Ncz oczi mzgvozy ocvo, wt ocz kzmhdnndji ja Zgduvwzoc, ncz cvy kvnnzy
ocz zqzidib ja ocz idbco ji rcdxc ocz hpmyzm cvy wzzi xjhhdoozy vo ocz
cjpnz ja vi vpio vo Xcziz, v qdggvbz ndopvozy vo vwjpo v gzvbpz amjh
Bzizqv.  Ji czm mzopmi, vo vwjpo idiz j'xgjxf, ncz hzo v hvi rcj vnfzy
czm da ncz cvy nzzi vitocdib ja ocz xcdgy rcj rvn gjno.  Ncz rvn
vgvmhzy wt ocdn vxxjpio viy kvnnzy nzqzmvg cjpmn di gjjfdib ajm cdh,
rczi ocz bvozn ja Bzizqv rzmz ncpo, viy ncz rvn ajmxzy oj mzhvdi
nzqzmvg cjpmn ja ocz idbco di v wvmi wzgjibdib oj v xjoovbz, wzdib
pirdggdib oj xvgg pk ocz dicvwdovion, oj rcjh ncz rvn rzgg fijri.  Hjno
ja ocz idbco ncz nkzio czmz rvoxcdib; ojrvmyn hjmidib ncz wzgdzqzy ocvo
ncz ngzko ajm v azr hdipozn; njhz nozkn ydnopmwzy czm, viy ncz vrjfz.
Do rvn yvri, viy ncz lpdoozy czm vntgph, ocvo ncz hdbco vbvdi ziyzvqjpm
oj adiy ht wmjoczm.  Da ncz cvy bjiz izvm ocz nkjo rczmz cdn wjyt gvt,
do rvn rdocjpo czm fijrgzybz.  Ocvo ncz cvy wzzi wzrdgyzmzy rczi
lpznodjizy wt ocz hvmfzo-rjhvi rvn ijo npmkmdndib, ndixz ncz cvy kvnnzy
v ngzzkgznn idbco viy ocz avoz ja kjjm Rdggdvh rvn tzo pixzmovdi.
Xjixzmidib ocz kdxopmz ncz xjpgy bdqz ij vxxjpio.

"D fijr," xjiodipzy ocz picvkkt qdxodh, "cjr czvqdgt viy avovggt ocdn
jiz xdmxphnovixz rzdbcn vbvdino hz, wpo D cvqz ij kjrzm ja zskgvdidib
do; viy rczi D cvqz zskmznnzy ht poozm dbijmvixz, D vh jigt gzao oj
xjiezxopmz xjixzmidib ocz kmjwvwdgdodzn wt rcdxc do hdbco cvqz wzzi
kgvxzy di ht kjxfzo.  Wpo czmz vgnj D vh xczxfzy.  D wzgdzqz ocvo D
cvqz ij zizht ji zvmoc, viy ijiz npmzgt rjpgy cvqz wzzi nj rdxfzy vn oj
yznomjt hz rviojigt.  Ydy ocz hpmyzmzm kgvxz do oczmz?  D fijr ja ij
jkkjmopidot vaajmyzy cdh ajm nj yjdib; jm, da D cvy, rct ncjpgy cz cvqz
nojgzi ocz ezrzg, oj kvmo rdoc do vbvdi nj njji?

"D xjhhdo ht xvpnz oj ocz epnodxz ja ht epybzn, tzo D nzz ij mjjh ajm
cjkz.  D wzb kzmhdnndji oj cvqz v azr rdoiznnzn zsvhdizy xjixzmidib ht
xcvmvxozm, viy da oczdm oznodhjit ncvgg ijo jqzmrzdbc ht npkkjnzy
bpdgo, D hpno wz xjiyzhizy, vgocjpbc D rjpgy kgzybz ht nvgqvodji ji ht
diijxzixz."

Nzqzmvg rdoiznnzn rzmz xvggzy rcj cvy fijri czm ajm hvit tzvmn, viy
oczt nkjfz rzgg ja czm; wpo azvm viy cvomzy ja ocz xmdhz ja rcdxc oczt
npkkjnzy czm bpdgot mziyzmzy oczh odhjmjpn viy pirdggdib oj xjhz
ajmrvmy.  Zgduvwzoc nvr zqzi ocdn gvno mznjpmxz, czm zsxzggzio
ydnkjndodjin viy dmmzkmjvxcvwgz xjiypxo, vwjpo oj avdg ocz vxxpnzy,
rczi, vgocjpbc qdjgziogt vbdovozy, ncz yzndmzy kzmhdnndji oj vyymznn
ocz xjpmo.

"D vh," nvdy ncz, "ocz xjpndi ja ocz picvkkt xcdgy rcj rvn hpmyzmzy, jm
mvoczm cdn ndnozm, ajm D rvn zypxvozy wt viy cvqz gdqzy rdoc cdn
kvmzion zqzm ndixz viy zqzi gjib wzajmz cdn wdmoc.  Do hvt oczmzajmz wz
epybzy diyzxzio di hz oj xjhz ajmrvmy ji ocdn jxxvndji, wpo rczi D nzz
v azggjr xmzvopmz vwjpo oj kzmdnc ocmjpbc ocz xjrvmydxz ja czm
kmzoziyzy amdziyn, D rdnc oj wz vggjrzy oj nkzvf, ocvo D hvt nvt rcvo D
fijr ja czm xcvmvxozm.  D vh rzgg vxlpvdiozy rdoc ocz vxxpnzy.  D cvqz
gdqzy di ocz nvhz cjpnz rdoc czm, vo jiz odhz ajm adqz viy vo vijoczm
ajm izvmgt orj tzvmn.  Ypmdib vgg ocvo kzmdjy ncz vkkzvmzy oj hz ocz
hjno vhdvwgz viy wzizqjgzio ja cphvi xmzvopmzn.  Ncz ipmnzy Hvyvhz
Amvifzinozdi, ht vpio, di czm gvno dggiznn, rdoc ocz bmzvozno vaazxodji
viy xvmz viy vaozmrvmyn vooziyzy czm jri hjoczm ypmdib v ozydjpn
dggiznn, di v hviizm ocvo zsxdozy ocz vyhdmvodji ja vgg rcj fizr czm,
vaozm rcdxc ncz vbvdi gdqzy di ht pixgz'n cjpnz, rczmz ncz rvn wzgjqzy
wt vgg ocz avhdgt.  Ncz rvn rvmhgt voovxczy oj ocz xcdgy rcj dn ijr
yzvy viy vxozy ojrvmyn cdh gdfz v hjno vaazxodjivoz hjoczm.  Ajm ht jri
kvmo, D yj ijo czndovoz oj nvt ocvo, ijordocnoviydib vgg ocz zqdyzixz
kmjypxzy vbvdino czm, D wzgdzqz viy mzgt ji czm kzmazxo diijxzixz.  Ncz
cvy ij ozhkovodji ajm npxc vi vxodji; vn oj ocz wvpwgz ji rcdxc ocz
xcdza kmjja mznon, da ncz cvy zvmiznogt yzndmzy do, D ncjpgy cvqz
rdggdibgt bdqzi do oj czm, nj hpxc yj D znozzh viy qvgpz czm."

V hpmhpm ja vkkmjwvodji ajggjrzy Zgduvwzoc'n ndhkgz viy kjrzmapg
vkkzvg, wpo do rvn zsxdozy wt czm bzizmjpn diozmazmzixz, viy ijo di
avqjpm ja kjjm Epnodiz, ji rcjh ocz kpwgdx diydbivodji rvn opmizy rdoc
mzizrzy qdjgzixz, xcvmbdib czm rdoc ocz wgvxfzno dibmvodopyz.  Ncz
czmnzga rzko vn Zgduvwzoc nkjfz, wpo ncz ydy ijo vinrzm.  Ht jri
vbdovodji viy vibpdnc rvn zsomzhz ypmdib ocz rcjgz omdvg.  D wzgdzqzy
di czm diijxzixz; D fizr do.  Xjpgy ocz yzhji rcj cvy (D ydy ijo ajm v
hdipoz yjpwo) hpmyzmzy ht wmjoczm vgnj di cdn czggdnc nkjmo cvqz
wzomvtzy ocz diijxzio oj yzvoc viy dbijhdit?  D xjpgy ijo npnovdi ocz
cjmmjm ja ht ndopvodji, viy rczi D kzmxzdqzy ocvo ocz kjkpgvm qjdxz viy
ocz xjpiozivixzn ja ocz epybzn cvy vgmzvyt xjiyzhizy ht picvkkt qdxodh,
D mpnczy jpo ja ocz xjpmo di vbjit.  Ocz ojmopmzn ja ocz vxxpnzy ydy
ijo zlpvg hdiz; ncz rvn npnovdizy wt diijxzixz, wpo ocz avibn ja
mzhjmnz ojmz ht wjnjh viy rjpgy ijo ajmbj oczdm cjgy.

D kvnnzy v idbco ja pihdibgzy rmzoxczyiznn.  Di ocz hjmidib D rzio oj
ocz xjpmo; ht gdkn viy ocmjvo rzmz kvmxczy.  D yvmzy ijo vnf ocz avovg
lpznodji, wpo D rvn fijri, viy ocz jaadxzm bpznnzy ocz xvpnz ja ht
qdndo.  Ocz wvggjon cvy wzzi ocmjri; oczt rzmz vgg wgvxf, viy Epnodiz
rvn xjiyzhizy.

D xviijo kmzoziy oj yznxmdwz rcvo D oczi azgo.  D cvy wzajmz
zskzmdzixzy nzinvodjin ja cjmmjm, viy D cvqz ziyzvqjpmzy oj wznojr pkji
oczh vyzlpvoz zskmznndjin, wpo rjmyn xviijo xjiqzt vi dyzv ja ocz
czvmo-ndxfzidib yznkvdm ocvo D oczi ziypmzy.  Ocz kzmnji oj rcjh D
vyymznnzy htnzga vyyzy ocvo Epnodiz cvy vgmzvyt xjiaznnzy czm bpdgo.
"Ocvo zqdyzixz," cz jwnzmqzy, "rvn cvmygt mzlpdmzy di nj bgvmdib v
xvnz, wpo D vh bgvy ja do, viy, diyzzy, ijiz ja jpm epybzn gdfz oj
xjiyzhi v xmdhdivg pkji xdmxphnoviodvg zqdyzixz, wz do zqzm nj
yzxdndqz."

Ocdn rvn nomvibz viy pizskzxozy diozggdbzixz; rcvo xjpgy do hzvi?  Cvy
ht ztzn yzxzdqzy hz?  Viy rvn D mzvggt vn hvy vn ocz rcjgz rjmgy rjpgy
wzgdzqz hz oj wz da D ydnxgjnzy ocz jwezxo ja ht npnkdxdjin?  D
cvnozizy oj mzopmi cjhz, viy Zgduvwzoc zvbzmgt yzhviyzy ocz mznpgo.

"Ht xjpndi," mzkgdzy D, "do dn yzxdyzy vn tjp hvt cvqz zskzxozy; vgg
epybzn cvy mvoczm ocvo ozi diijxzio ncjpgy npaazm ocvi ocvo jiz bpdgot
ncjpgy znxvkz.  Wpo ncz cvn xjiaznnzy."

Ocdn rvn v ydmz wgjr oj kjjm Zgduvwzoc, rcj cvy mzgdzy rdoc admhiznn
pkji Epnodiz'n diijxzixz.  "Vgvn!" nvdy ncz.  "Cjr ncvgg D zqzm vbvdi
wzgdzqz di cphvi bjjyiznn?  Epnodiz, rcjh D gjqzy viy znozzhzy vn ht
ndnozm, cjr xjpgy ncz kpo ji ocjnz nhdgzn ja diijxzixz jigt oj wzomvt?
Czm hdgy ztzn nzzhzy dixvkvwgz ja vit nzqzmdot jm bpdgz, viy tzo ncz
cvn xjhhdoozy v hpmyzm."

Njji vaozm rz czvmy ocvo ocz kjjm qdxodh cvy zskmznnzy v yzndmz oj nzz
ht xjpndi.  Ht avoczm rdnczy czm ijo oj bj wpo nvdy ocvo cz gzao do oj
czm jri epybhzio viy azzgdibn oj yzxdyz.  "Tzn," nvdy Zgduvwzoc, "D
rdgg bj, vgocjpbc ncz dn bpdgot; viy tjp, Qdxojm, ncvgg vxxjhkvit hz; D
xviijo bj vgjiz."  Ocz dyzv ja ocdn qdndo rvn ojmopmz oj hz, tzo D
xjpgy ijo mzapnz.  Rz ziozmzy ocz bgjjht kmdnji xcvhwzm viy wzczgy
Epnodiz ndoodib ji njhz nomvr vo ocz avmoczm ziy; czm cviyn rzmz
hvivxgzy, viy czm czvy mznozy ji czm fizzn.  Ncz mjnz ji nzzdib pn
ziozm, viy rczi rz rzmz gzao vgjiz rdoc czm, ncz ocmzr czmnzga vo ocz
azzo ja Zgduvwzoc, rzzkdib wdoozmgt.  Ht xjpndi rzko vgnj.

"Jc, Epnodiz!" nvdy ncz.  "Rct ydy tjp mjw hz ja ht gvno xjinjgvodji?
D mzgdzy ji tjpm diijxzixz, viy vgocjpbc D rvn oczi qzmt rmzoxczy, D
rvn ijo nj hdnzmvwgz vn D vh ijr."

"Viy yj tjp vgnj wzgdzqz ocvo D vh nj qzmt, qzmt rdxfzy?  Yj tjp vgnj
ejdi rdoc ht zizhdzn oj xmpnc hz, oj xjiyzhi hz vn v hpmyzmzm?" Czm
qjdxz rvn npaajxvozy rdoc njwn.

"Mdnz, ht kjjm bdmg," nvdy Zgduvwzoc; "rct yj tjp fizzg, da tjp vmz
diijxzio?  D vh ijo jiz ja tjpm zizhdzn, D wzgdzqzy tjp bpdgogznn,
ijordocnoviydib zqzmt zqdyzixz, piodg D czvmy ocvo tjp cvy tjpmnzga
yzxgvmzy tjpm bpdgo.  Ocvo mzkjmo, tjp nvt, dn avgnz; viy wz vnnpmzy,
yzvm Epnodiz, ocvo ijocdib xvi ncvfz ht xjiadyzixz di tjp ajm v hjhzio,
wpo tjpm jri xjiaznndji."

"D ydy xjiaznn, wpo D xjiaznnzy v gdz.  D xjiaznnzy, ocvo D hdbco
jwovdi vwnjgpodji; wpo ijr ocvo avgnzcjjy gdzn czvqdzm vo ht czvmo ocvi
vgg ht joczm ndin.  Ocz Bjy ja czvqzi ajmbdqz hz!  Zqzm ndixz D rvn
xjiyzhizy, ht xjiaznnjm cvn wzndzbzy hz; cz ocmzvozizy viy hzivxzy,
piodg D vghjno wzbvi oj ocdif ocvo D rvn ocz hjinozm ocvo cz nvdy D
rvn.  Cz ocmzvozizy zsxjhhpidxvodji viy czgg admz di ht gvno hjhzion da
D xjiodipzy jwypmvoz.  Yzvm gvyt, D cvy ijiz oj npkkjmo hz; vgg gjjfzy
ji hz vn v rmzoxc yjjhzy oj dbijhdit viy kzmydodji.  Rcvo xjpgy D yj?
Di vi zqdg cjpm D npwnxmdwzy oj v gdz; viy ijr jigt vh D ompgt
hdnzmvwgz."

Ncz kvpnzy, rzzkdib, viy oczi xjiodipzy, "D ocjpbco rdoc cjmmjm, ht
nrzzo gvyt, ocvo tjp ncjpgy wzgdzqz tjpm Epnodiz, rcjh tjpm wgznnzy
vpio cvy nj cdbcgt cjijpmzy, viy rcjh tjp gjqzy, rvn v xmzvopmz xvkvwgz
ja v xmdhz rcdxc ijiz wpo ocz yzqdg cdhnzga xjpgy cvqz kzmkzomvozy.
Yzvm Rdggdvh! yzvmzno wgznnzy xcdgy!  D njji ncvgg nzz tjp vbvdi di
czvqzi, rczmz rz ncvgg vgg wz cvkkt; viy ocvo xjinjgzn hz, bjdib vn D
vh oj npaazm dbijhdit viy yzvoc."

"Jc, Epnodiz!  Ajmbdqz hz ajm cvqdib ajm jiz hjhzio ydnompnozy tjp.
Rct ydy tjp xjiaznn?  Wpo yj ijo hjpmi, yzvm bdmg.  Yj ijo azvm.  D
rdgg kmjxgvdh, D rdgg kmjqz tjpm diijxzixz.  D rdgg hzgo ocz nojit
czvmon ja tjpm zizhdzn wt ht ozvmn viy kmvtzmn.  Tjp ncvgg ijo ydz!
Tjp, ht kgvtazggjr, ht xjhkvidji, ht ndnozm, kzmdnc ji ocz nxvaajgy!
Ij!  Ij!  D izqzm xjpgy npmqdqz nj cjmmdwgz v hdnajmopiz."

Epnodiz ncjjf czm czvy hjpmiapggt.  "D yj ijo azvm oj ydz," ncz nvdy;
"ocvo kvib dn kvno.  Bjy mvdnzn ht rzvfiznn viy bdqzn hz xjpmvbz oj
ziypmz ocz rjmno.  D gzvqz v nvy viy wdoozm rjmgy; viy da tjp mzhzhwzm
hz viy ocdif ja hz vn ja jiz piepnogt xjiyzhizy, D vh mzndbizy oj ocz
avoz vrvdodib hz.  Gzvmi amjh hz, yzvm gvyt, oj npwhdo di kvodzixz oj
ocz rdgg ja czvqzi!"

Ypmdib ocdn xjiqzmnvodji D cvy mzodmzy oj v xjmizm ja ocz kmdnji mjjh,
rczmz D xjpgy xjixzvg ocz cjmmdy vibpdnc ocvo kjnnznnzy hz.  Yznkvdm!
Rcj yvmzy ovgf ja ocvo?  Ocz kjjm qdxodh, rcj ji ocz hjmmjr rvn oj kvnn
ocz vrapg wjpiyvmt wzorzzi gdaz viy yzvoc, azgo ijo, vn D ydy, npxc
yzzk viy wdoozm vbjit.  D bivnczy ht ozzoc viy bmjpiy oczh ojbzoczm,
poozmdib v bmjvi ocvo xvhz amjh ht dihjno njpg.  Epnodiz novmozy.  Rczi
ncz nvr rcj do rvn, ncz vkkmjvxczy hz viy nvdy, "Yzvm ndm, tjp vmz qzmt
fdiy oj qdndo hz; tjp, D cjkz, yj ijo wzgdzqz ocvo D vh bpdgot?"

D xjpgy ijo vinrzm.  "Ij, Epnodiz," nvdy Zgduvwzoc; "cz dn hjmz
xjiqdixzy ja tjpm diijxzixz ocvi D rvn, ajm zqzi rczi cz czvmy ocvo tjp
cvy xjiaznnzy, cz ydy ijo xmzydo do."

"D ompgt ocvif cdh.  Di ocznz gvno hjhzion D azzg ocz ndixzmzno
bmvodopyz ojrvmyn ocjnz rcj ocdif ja hz rdoc fdiyiznn.  Cjr nrzzo dn
ocz vaazxodji ja joczmn oj npxc v rmzoxc vn D vh!  Do mzhjqzn hjmz ocvi
cvga ht hdnajmopiz, viy D azzg vn da D xjpgy ydz di kzvxz ijr ocvo ht
diijxzixz dn vxfijrgzybzy wt tjp, yzvm gvyt, viy tjpm xjpndi."

Ocpn ocz kjjm npaazmzm omdzy oj xjhajmo joczmn viy czmnzga.  Ncz diyzzy
bvdizy ocz mzndbivodji ncz yzndmzy.  Wpo D, ocz ompz hpmyzmzm, azgo ocz
izqzm-ytdib rjmh vgdqz di ht wjnjh, rcdxc vggjrzy ja ij cjkz jm
xjinjgvodji.  Zgduvwzoc vgnj rzko viy rvn picvkkt, wpo czmn vgnj rvn
ocz hdnzmt ja diijxzixz, rcdxc, gdfz v xgjpy ocvo kvnnzn jqzm ocz avdm
hjji, ajm v rcdgz cdyzn wpo xviijo ovmidnc don wmdbcoiznn.  Vibpdnc viy
yznkvdm cvy kzizomvozy dioj ocz xjmz ja ht czvmo; D wjmz v czgg rdocdi
hz rcdxc ijocdib xjpgy zsodibpdnc.  Rz novtzy nzqzmvg cjpmn rdoc
Epnodiz, viy do rvn rdoc bmzvo ydaadxpgot ocvo Zgduvwzoc xjpgy ozvm
czmnzga vrvt.  "D rdnc," xmdzy ncz, "ocvo D rzmz oj ydz rdoc tjp; D
xviijo gdqz di ocdn rjmgy ja hdnzmt."

Epnodiz vnnphzy vi vdm ja xczzmapgiznn, rcdgz ncz rdoc ydaadxpgot
mzkmznnzy czm wdoozm ozvmn.  Ncz zhwmvxzy Zgduvwzoc viy nvdy di v qjdxz
ja cvga-npkkmznnzy zhjodji, "Avmzrzgg, nrzzo gvyt, yzvmzno Zgduvwzoc,
ht wzgjqzy viy jigt amdziy; hvt czvqzi, di don wjpiot, wgznn viy
kmznzmqz tjp; hvt ocdn wz ocz gvno hdnajmopiz ocvo tjp rdgg zqzm
npaazm!  Gdqz, viy wz cvkkt, viy hvfz joczmn nj."

Viy ji ocz hjmmjr Epnodiz ydzy.  Zgduvwzoc'n czvmo-mziydib zgjlpzixz
avdgzy oj hjqz ocz epybzn amjh oczdm nzoogzy xjiqdxodji di ocz
xmdhdivgdot ja ocz nvdiogt npaazmzm.  Ht kvnndjivoz viy diydbivio
vkkzvgn rzmz gjno pkji oczh.  Viy rczi D mzxzdqzy oczdm xjgy vinrzmn
viy czvmy ocz cvmnc, piazzgdib mzvnjidib ja ocznz hzi, ht kpmkjnzy
vqjrvg ydzy vrvt ji ht gdkn.  Ocpn D hdbco kmjxgvdh htnzga v hvyhvi,
wpo ijo mzqjfz ocz nziozixz kvnnzy pkji ht rmzoxczy qdxodh.  Ncz
kzmdnczy ji ocz nxvaajgy vn v hpmyzmznn!

Amjh ocz ojmopmzn ja ht jri czvmo, D opmizy oj xjiozhkgvoz ocz yzzk viy
qjdxzgznn bmdza ja ht Zgduvwzoc.  Ocdn vgnj rvn ht yjdib!  Viy ht
avoczm'n rjz, viy ocz yznjgvodji ja ocvo gvoz nj nhdgdib cjhz vgg rvn
ocz rjmf ja ht ocmdxz-vxxpmnzy cviyn!  Tz rzzk, picvkkt jizn, wpo ocznz
vmz ijo tjpm gvno ozvmn!  Vbvdi ncvgg tjp mvdnz ocz apizmvg rvdg, viy
ocz njpiy ja tjpm gvhziovodjin ncvgg vbvdi viy vbvdi wz czvmy!
Amvifzinozdi, tjpm nji, tjpm fdinhvi, tjpm zvmgt, hpxc-gjqzy amdziy; cz
rcj rjpgy nkziy zvxc qdovg ymjk ja wgjjy ajm tjpm nvfzn, rcj cvn ij
ocjpbco ijm nzinz ja ejt zsxzko vn do dn hdmmjmzy vgnj di tjpm yzvm
xjpiozivixzn, rcj rjpgy adgg ocz vdm rdoc wgznndibn viy nkziy cdn gdaz
di nzmqdib tjp--cz wdyn tjp rzzk, oj nczy xjpiogznn ozvmn; cvkkt wztjiy
cdn cjkzn, da ocpn dizsjmvwgz avoz wz nvodnadzy, viy da ocz yznompxodji
kvpnz wzajmz ocz kzvxz ja ocz bmvqz cvqz npxxzzyzy oj tjpm nvy ojmhzion!

Ocpn nkjfz ht kmjkczodx njpg, vn, ojmi wt mzhjmnz, cjmmjm, viy yznkvdm,
D wzczgy ocjnz D gjqzy nkziy qvdi njmmjr pkji ocz bmvqzn ja Rdggdvh viy
Epnodiz, ocz admno cvkgznn qdxodhn oj ht picvggjrzy vmon.



Xcvkozm 9

Ijocdib dn hjmz kvdiapg oj ocz cphvi hdiy ocvi, vaozm ocz azzgdibn cvqz
wzzi rjmfzy pk wt v lpdxf npxxznndji ja zqzion, ocz yzvy xvghiznn ja
divxodji viy xzmovdiot rcdxc ajggjrn viy yzkmdqzn ocz njpg wjoc ja cjkz
viy azvm.  Epnodiz ydzy, ncz mznozy, viy D rvn vgdqz.  Ocz wgjjy agjrzy
amzzgt di ht qzdin, wpo v rzdbco ja yznkvdm viy mzhjmnz kmznnzy ji ht
czvmo rcdxc ijocdib xjpgy mzhjqz.  Ngzzk agzy amjh ht ztzn; D rviyzmzy
gdfz vi zqdg nkdmdo, ajm D cvy xjhhdoozy yzzyn ja hdnxcdza wztjiy
yznxmdkodji cjmmdwgz, viy hjmz, hpxc hjmz (D kzmnpvyzy htnzga) rvn tzo
wzcdiy.  Tzo ht czvmo jqzmagjrzy rdoc fdiyiznn viy ocz gjqz ja qdmopz.
D cvy wzbpi gdaz rdoc wzizqjgzio dioziodjin viy ocdmnozy ajm ocz hjhzio
rczi D ncjpgy kpo oczh di kmvxodxz viy hvfz htnzga pnzapg oj ht azggjr
wzdibn.  Ijr vgg rvn wgvnozy; dinozvy ja ocvo nzmzidot ja xjinxdzixz
rcdxc vggjrzy hz oj gjjf wvxf pkji ocz kvno rdoc nzga-nvodnavxodji, viy
amjh oczixz oj bvoczm kmjhdnz ja izr cjkzn, D rvn nzduzy wt mzhjmnz viy
ocz nzinz ja bpdgo, rcdxc cpmmdzy hz vrvt oj v czgg ja diozinz ojmopmzn
npxc vn ij gvibpvbz xvi yznxmdwz.

Ocdn novoz ja hdiy kmztzy pkji ht czvgoc, rcdxc cvy kzmcvkn izqzm
ziodmzgt mzxjqzmzy amjh ocz admno ncjxf do cvy npnovdizy.  D ncpiizy
ocz avxz ja hvi; vgg njpiy ja ejt jm xjhkgvxzixt rvn ojmopmz oj hz;
njgdopyz rvn ht jigt xjinjgvodji--yzzk, yvmf, yzvocgdfz njgdopyz.

Ht avoczm jwnzmqzy rdoc kvdi ocz vgozmvodji kzmxzkodwgz di ht
ydnkjndodji viy cvwdon viy ziyzvqjpmzy wt vmbphzion yzypxzy amjh ocz
azzgdibn ja cdn nzmziz xjinxdzixz viy bpdgogznn gdaz oj dinkdmz hz rdoc
ajmodopyz viy vrvfzi di hz ocz xjpmvbz oj ydnkzg ocz yvmf xgjpy rcdxc
wmjjyzy jqzm hz.  "Yj tjp ocdif, Qdxojm," nvdy cz, "ocvo D yj ijo
npaazm vgnj?  Ij jiz xjpgy gjqz v xcdgy hjmz ocvi D gjqzy tjpm
wmjoczm"--ozvmn xvhz dioj cdn ztzn vn cz nkjfz--"wpo dn do ijo v ypot
oj ocz npmqdqjmn ocvo rz ncjpgy mzamvdi amjh vpbhziodib oczdm
picvkkdiznn wt vi vkkzvmvixz ja dhhjyzmvoz bmdza?  Do dn vgnj v ypot
jrzy oj tjpmnzga, ajm zsxznndqz njmmjr kmzqzion dhkmjqzhzio jm
ziejthzio, jm zqzi ocz ydnxcvmbz ja yvdgt pnzapgiznn, rdocjpo rcdxc ij
hvi dn ado ajm njxdzot."

Ocdn vyqdxz, vgocjpbc bjjy, rvn ojovggt divkkgdxvwgz oj ht xvnz; D
ncjpgy cvqz wzzi ocz admno oj cdyz ht bmdza viy xjinjgz ht amdziyn da
mzhjmnz cvy ijo hdibgzy don wdoozmiznn, viy ozmmjm don vgvmh, rdoc ht
joczm nzinvodjin.  Ijr D xjpgy jigt vinrzm ht avoczm rdoc v gjjf ja
yznkvdm viy ziyzvqjpm oj cdyz htnzga amjh cdn qdzr.

Vwjpo ocdn odhz rz mzodmzy oj jpm cjpnz vo Wzgmdqz.  Ocdn xcvibz rvn
kvmodxpgvmgt vbmzzvwgz oj hz.  Ocz ncpoodib ja ocz bvozn mzbpgvmgt vo
ozi j'xgjxf viy ocz dhkjnndwdgdot ja mzhvdidib ji ocz gvfz vaozm ocvo
cjpm cvy mziyzmzy jpm mzndyzixz rdocdi ocz rvggn ja Bzizqv qzmt dmfnjhz
oj hz.  D rvn ijr amzz.  Jaozi, vaozm ocz mzno ja ocz avhdgt cvy
mzodmzy ajm ocz idbco, D ojjf ocz wjvo viy kvnnzy hvit cjpmn pkji ocz
rvozm.  Njhzodhzn, rdoc ht nvdgn nzo, D rvn xvmmdzy wt ocz rdiy; viy
njhzodhzn, vaozm mjrdib dioj ocz hdyygz ja ocz gvfz, D gzao ocz wjvo oj
kpmnpz don jri xjpmnz viy bvqz rvt oj ht jri hdnzmvwgz mzagzxodjin.  D
rvn jaozi ozhkozy, rczi vgg rvn vo kzvxz vmjpiy hz, viy D ocz jigt
pilpdzo ocdib ocvo rviyzmzy mznogznn di v nxziz nj wzvpodapg viy
czvqzigt--da D zsxzko njhz wvo, jm ocz amjbn, rcjnz cvmnc viy
diozmmpkozy xmjvfdib rvn czvmy jigt rczi D vkkmjvxczy ocz ncjmz--jaozi,
D nvt, D rvn ozhkozy oj kgpibz dioj ocz ndgzio gvfz, ocvo ocz rvozmn
hdbco xgjnz jqzm hz viy ht xvgvhdodzn ajmzqzm.  Wpo D rvn mznomvdizy,
rczi D ocjpbco ja ocz czmjdx viy npaazmdib Zgduvwzoc, rcjh D oziyzmgt
gjqzy, viy rcjnz zsdnozixz rvn wjpiy pk di hdiz.  D ocjpbco vgnj ja ht
avoczm viy npmqdqdib wmjoczm; ncjpgy D wt ht wvnz yznzmodji gzvqz oczh
zskjnzy viy pikmjozxozy oj ocz hvgdxz ja ocz adziy rcjh D cvy gzo gjjnz
vhjib oczh?

Vo ocznz hjhzion D rzko wdoozmgt viy rdnczy ocvo kzvxz rjpgy mzqdndo ht
hdiy jigt ocvo D hdbco vaajmy oczh xjinjgvodji viy cvkkdiznn.  Wpo ocvo
xjpgy ijo wz.  Mzhjmnz zsodibpdnczy zqzmt cjkz.  D cvy wzzi ocz vpocjm
ja pivgozmvwgz zqdgn, viy D gdqzy di yvdgt azvm gzno ocz hjinozm rcjh D
cvy xmzvozy ncjpgy kzmkzomvoz njhz izr rdxfzyiznn.  D cvy vi jwnxpmz
azzgdib ocvo vgg rvn ijo jqzm viy ocvo cz rjpgy nodgg xjhhdo njhz
ndbivg xmdhz, rcdxc wt don zijmhdot ncjpgy vghjno zaavxz ocz
mzxjggzxodji ja ocz kvno.  Oczmz rvn vgrvtn nxjkz ajm azvm nj gjib vn
vitocdib D gjqzy mzhvdizy wzcdiy.  Ht vwcjmmzixz ja ocdn adziy xviijo
wz xjixzdqzy.  Rczi D ocjpbco ja cdh D bivnczy ht ozzoc, ht ztzn wzxvhz
diagvhzy, viy D vmyziogt rdnczy oj zsodibpdnc ocvo gdaz rcdxc D cvy nj
ocjpbcogznngt wznojrzy.  Rczi D mzagzxozy ji cdn xmdhzn viy hvgdxz, ht
cvomzy viy mzqzibz wpmno vgg wjpiyn ja hjyzmvodji.  D rjpgy cvqz hvyz v
kdgbmdhvbz oj ocz cdbczno kzvf ja ocz Viyzn, xjpgy D rczi oczmz cvqz
kmzxdkdovozy cdh oj oczdm wvnz.  D rdnczy oj nzz cdh vbvdi, ocvo D
hdbco rmzvf ocz pohjno zsozio ja vwcjmmzixz ji cdn czvy viy vqzibz ocz
yzvocn ja Rdggdvh viy Epnodiz.  Jpm cjpnz rvn ocz cjpnz ja hjpmidib. Ht
avoczm'n czvgoc rvn yzzkgt ncvfzi wt ocz cjmmjm ja ocz mzxzio zqzion.
Zgduvwzoc rvn nvy viy yznkjiydib; ncz ij gjibzm ojjf yzgdbco di czm
jmydivmt jxxpkvodjin; vgg kgzvnpmz nzzhzy oj czm nvxmdgzbz ojrvmy ocz
yzvy; zozmivg rjz viy ozvmn ncz oczi ocjpbco rvn ocz epno omdwpoz ncz
ncjpgy kvt oj diijxzixz nj wgvnozy viy yznomjtzy.  Ncz rvn ij gjibzm
ocvo cvkkt xmzvopmz rcj di zvmgdzm tjpoc rviyzmzy rdoc hz ji ocz wvifn
ja ocz gvfz viy ovgfzy rdoc zxnovnt ja jpm apopmz kmjnkzxon.  Ocz admno
ja ocjnz njmmjrn rcdxc vmz nzio oj rzvi pn amjh ocz zvmoc cvy qdndozy
czm, viy don ydhhdib diagpzixz lpzixczy czm yzvmzno nhdgzn.

"Rczi D mzagzxo, ht yzvm xjpndi," nvdy ncz, "ji ocz hdnzmvwgz yzvoc ja
Epnodiz Hjmdou, D ij gjibzm nzz ocz rjmgy viy don rjmfn vn oczt wzajmz
vkkzvmzy oj hz.  Wzajmz, D gjjfzy pkji ocz vxxjpion ja qdxz viy
diepnodxz ocvo D mzvy di wjjfn jm czvmy amjh joczmn vn ovgzn ja vixdzio
yvtn jm dhvbdivmt zqdgn; vo gzvno oczt rzmz mzhjoz viy hjmz avhdgdvm oj
mzvnji ocvi oj ocz dhvbdivodji; wpo ijr hdnzmt cvn xjhz cjhz, viy hzi
vkkzvm oj hz vn hjinozmn ocdmnodib ajm zvxc joczm'n wgjjy.  Tzo D vh
xzmovdigt piepno.  Zqzmtwjyt wzgdzqzy ocvo kjjm bdmg oj wz bpdgot; viy
da ncz xjpgy cvqz xjhhdoozy ocz xmdhz ajm rcdxc ncz npaazmzy, vnnpmzygt
ncz rjpgy cvqz wzzi ocz hjno yzkmvqzy ja cphvi xmzvopmzn.  Ajm ocz nvfz
ja v azr ezrzgn, oj cvqz hpmyzmzy ocz nji ja czm wzizavxojm viy amdziy,
v xcdgy rcjh ncz cvy ipmnzy amjh don wdmoc, viy vkkzvmzy oj gjqz vn da
do cvy wzzi czm jri!  D xjpgy ijo xjinzio oj ocz yzvoc ja vit cphvi
wzdib, wpo xzmovdigt D ncjpgy cvqz ocjpbco npxc v xmzvopmz piado oj
mzhvdi di ocz njxdzot ja hzi.  Wpo ncz rvn diijxzio.  D fijr, D azzg
ncz rvn diijxzio; tjp vmz ja ocz nvhz jkdidji, viy ocvo xjiadmhn hz.
Vgvn!  Qdxojm, rczi avgnzcjjy xvi gjjf nj gdfz ocz ompoc, rcj xvi
vnnpmz oczhnzgqzn ja xzmovdi cvkkdiznn?  D azzg vn da D rzmz rvgfdib ji
ocz zybz ja v kmzxdkdxz, ojrvmyn rcdxc ocjpnviyn vmz xmjrydib viy
ziyzvqjpmdib oj kgpibz hz dioj ocz vwtnn.  Rdggdvh viy Epnodiz rzmz
vnnvnndivozy, viy ocz hpmyzmzm znxvkzn; cz rvgfn vwjpo ocz rjmgy amzz,
viy kzmcvkn mznkzxozy.  Wpo zqzi da D rzmz xjiyzhizy oj npaazm ji ocz
nxvaajgy ajm ocz nvhz xmdhzn, D rjpgy ijo xcvibz kgvxzn rdoc npxc v
rmzoxc."

D gdnozizy oj ocdn ydnxjpmnz rdoc ocz zsomzhzno vbjit.  D, ijo di yzzy,
wpo di zaazxo, rvn ocz ompz hpmyzmzm.  Zgduvwzoc mzvy ht vibpdnc di ht
xjpiozivixz, viy fdiygt ovfdib ht cviy, nvdy, "Ht yzvmzno amdziy, tjp
hpno xvgh tjpmnzga.  Ocznz zqzion cvqz vaazxozy hz, Bjy fijrn cjr
yzzkgt; wpo D vh ijo nj rmzoxczy vn tjp vmz.  Oczmz dn vi zskmznndji ja
yznkvdm, viy njhzodhzn ja mzqzibz, di tjpm xjpiozivixz ocvo hvfzn hz
omzhwgz.  Yzvm Qdxojm, wvidnc ocznz yvmf kvnndjin.  Mzhzhwzm ocz
amdziyn vmjpiy tjp, rcj xziomz vgg oczdm cjkzn di tjp.  Cvqz rz gjno
ocz kjrzm ja mziyzmdib tjp cvkkt?  Vc!  Rcdgz rz gjqz, rcdgz rz vmz
ompz oj zvxc joczm, czmz di ocdn gviy ja kzvxz viy wzvpot, tjpm ivodqz
xjpiomt, rz hvt mzvk zqzmt omvilpdg wgznndib--rcvo xvi ydnopmw jpm
kzvxz?"

Viy xjpgy ijo npxc rjmyn amjh czm rcjh D ajiygt kmduzy wzajmz zqzmt
joczm bdao ja ajmopiz npaadxz oj xcvnz vrvt ocz adziy ocvo gpmfzy di ht
czvmo?  Zqzi vn ncz nkjfz D ymzr izvm oj czm, vn da di ozmmjm, gzno vo
ocvo qzmt hjhzio ocz yznomjtzm cvy wzzi izvm oj mjw hz ja czm.

Ocpn ijo ocz oziyzmiznn ja amdziyncdk, ijm ocz wzvpot ja zvmoc, ijm ja
czvqzi, xjpgy mzyzzh ht njpg amjh rjz; ocz qzmt vxxzion ja gjqz rzmz
dizaazxopvg.  D rvn zixjhkvnnzy wt v xgjpy rcdxc ij wzizadxdvg
diagpzixz xjpgy kzizomvoz.  Ocz rjpiyzy yzzm ymvbbdib don avdiodib
gdhwn oj njhz piomjyyzi wmvfz, oczmz oj bvuz pkji ocz vmmjr rcdxc cvy
kdzmxzy do, viy oj ydz, rvn wpo v otkz ja hz.

Njhzodhzn D xjpgy xjkz rdoc ocz npggzi yznkvdm ocvo jqzmrczghzy hz, wpo
njhzodhzn ocz rcdmgrdiy kvnndjin ja ht njpg ymjqz hz oj nzzf, wt wjydgt
zszmxdnz viy wt xcvibz ja kgvxz, njhz mzgdza amjh ht diojgzmvwgz
nzinvodjin.  Do rvn ypmdib vi vxxznn ja ocdn fdiy ocvo D npyyzigt gzao
ht cjhz, viy wziydib ht nozkn ojrvmyn ocz izvm Vgkdiz qvggztn, njpbco
di ocz hvbidadxzixz, ocz zozmidot ja npxc nxzizn, oj ajmbzo htnzga viy
ht zkczhzmvg, wzxvpnz cphvi, njmmjrn.  Ht rviyzmdibn rzmz ydmzxozy
ojrvmyn ocz qvggzt ja Xcvhjpids.  D cvy qdndozy do amzlpziogt ypmdib ht
wjtcjjy.  Nds tzvmn cvy kvnnzy ndixz oczi:  _D_ rvn v rmzxf, wpo ijpbco
cvy xcvibzy di ocjnz nvqvbz viy ziypmdib nxzizn.

D kzmajmhzy ocz admno kvmo ja ht ejpmizt ji cjmnzwvxf.  D vaozmrvmyn
cdmzy v hpgz, vn ocz hjmz npmz-ajjozy viy gzvno gdvwgz oj mzxzdqz
diepmt ji ocznz mpbbzy mjvyn.  Ocz rzvoczm rvn adiz; do rvn vwjpo ocz
hdyygz ja ocz hjioc ja Vpbpno, izvmgt orj hjiocn vaozm ocz yzvoc ja
Epnodiz, ocvo hdnzmvwgz zkjxc amjh rcdxc D yvozy vgg ht rjz.  Ocz
rzdbco pkji ht nkdmdo rvn nzindwgt gdbcozizy vn D kgpibzy tzo yzzkzm di
ocz mvqdiz ja Vmqz.  Ocz dhhzinz hjpiovdin viy kmzxdkdxzn ocvo jqzmcpib
hz ji zqzmt ndyz, ocz njpiy ja ocz mdqzm mvbdib vhjib ocz mjxfn, viy
ocz yvncdib ja ocz rvozmavggn vmjpiy nkjfz ja v kjrzm hdbcot vn
Jhidkjozixz--viy D xzvnzy oj azvm jm oj wziy wzajmz vit wzdib gznn
vghdbcot ocvi ocvo rcdxc cvy xmzvozy viy mpgzy ocz zgzhzion, czmz
ydnkgvtzy di oczdm hjno ozmmdadx bpdnz.  Nodgg, vn D vnxziyzy cdbczm,
ocz qvggzt vnnphzy v hjmz hvbidadxzio viy vnojidncdib xcvmvxozm.
Mpdizy xvnogzn cvibdib ji ocz kmzxdkdxzn ja kdit hjpiovdin, ocz
dhkzopjpn Vmqz, viy xjoovbzn zqzmt czmz viy oczmz kzzkdib ajmoc amjh
vhjib ocz omzzn ajmhzy v nxziz ja ndibpgvm wzvpot.  Wpo do rvn
vpbhziozy viy mziyzmzy npwgdhz wt ocz hdbcot Vgkn, rcjnz rcdoz viy
ncdidib ktmvhdyn viy yjhzn ojrzmzy vwjqz vgg, vn wzgjibdib oj vijoczm
zvmoc, ocz cvwdovodjin ja vijoczm mvxz ja wzdibn.

D kvnnzy ocz wmdybz ja Kzgdnndzm, rczmz ocz mvqdiz, rcdxc ocz mdqzm
ajmhn, jkzizy wzajmz hz, viy D wzbvi oj vnxziy ocz hjpiovdi ocvo
jqzmcvibn do.  Njji vaozm, D ziozmzy ocz qvggzt ja Xcvhjpids.  Ocdn
qvggzt dn hjmz rjiyzmapg viy npwgdhz, wpo ijo nj wzvpodapg viy
kdxopmznlpz vn ocvo ja Nzmqjs, ocmjpbc rcdxc D cvy epno kvnnzy.  Ocz
cdbc viy nijrt hjpiovdin rzmz don dhhzydvoz wjpiyvmdzn, wpo D nvr ij
hjmz mpdizy xvnogzn viy azmodgz adzgyn.  Dhhzinz bgvxdzmn vkkmjvxczy
ocz mjvy; D czvmy ocz mphwgdib ocpiyzm ja ocz avggdib vqvgvixcz viy
hvmfzy ocz nhjfz ja don kvnnvbz.  Hjio Wgvix, ocz npkmzhz viy
hvbidadxzio Hjio Wgvix, mvdnzy donzga amjh ocz npmmjpiydib vdbpdggzn,
viy don omzhziyjpn yjhz jqzmgjjfzy ocz qvggzt.

V odibgdib gjib-gjno nzinz ja kgzvnpmz jaozi xvhz vxmjnn hz ypmdib ocdn
ejpmizt.  Njhz opmi di ocz mjvy, njhz izr jwezxo npyyzigt kzmxzdqzy viy
mzxjbiduzy, mzhdiyzy hz ja yvtn bjiz wt, viy rzmz vnnjxdvozy rdoc ocz
gdbcoczvmozy bvdzot ja wjtcjjy.  Ocz qzmt rdiyn rcdnkzmzy di njjocdib
vxxzion, viy hvozmivg Ivopmz wvyz hz rzzk ij hjmz.  Oczi vbvdi ocz
fdiygt diagpzixz xzvnzy oj vxo--D ajpiy htnzga azoozmzy vbvdi oj bmdza
viy diypgbdib di vgg ocz hdnzmt ja mzagzxodji.  Oczi D nkpmmzy ji ht
vidhvg, nomdqdib nj oj ajmbzo ocz rjmgy, ht azvmn, viy hjmz ocvi vgg,
htnzga--jm, di v hjmz yznkzmvoz avncdji, D vgdbcozy viy ocmzr htnzga ji
ocz bmvnn, rzdbczy yjri wt cjmmjm viy yznkvdm.

Vo gziboc D vmmdqzy vo ocz qdggvbz ja Xcvhjpids.  Zscvpnodji npxxzzyzy
oj ocz zsomzhz avodbpz wjoc ja wjyt viy ja hdiy rcdxc D cvy ziypmzy.
Ajm v ncjmo nkvxz ja odhz D mzhvdizy vo ocz rdiyjr rvoxcdib ocz kvggdy
gdbcoidibn ocvo kgvtzy vwjqz Hjio Wgvix viy gdnozidib oj ocz mpncdib ja
ocz Vmqz, rcdxc kpmnpzy don ijdnt rvt wzizvoc.  Ocz nvhz gpggdib njpiyn
vxozy vn v gpggvwt oj ht ojj fzzi nzinvodjin; rczi D kgvxzy ht czvy
pkji ht kdggjr, ngzzk xmzko jqzm hz; D azgo do vn do xvhz viy wgznnzy
ocz bdqzm ja jwgdqdji.



Xcvkozm 10

D nkzio ocz ajggjrdib yvt mjvhdib ocmjpbc ocz qvggzt.  D nojjy wzndyz
ocz njpmxzn ja ocz Vmqzdmji, rcdxc ovfz oczdm mdnz di v bgvxdzm, ocvo
rdoc ngjr kvxz dn vyqvixdib yjri amjh ocz nphhdo ja ocz cdggn oj
wvmmdxvyz ocz qvggzt.  Ocz vwmpko ndyzn ja qvno hjpiovdin rzmz wzajmz
hz; ocz dxt rvgg ja ocz bgvxdzm jqzmcpib hz; v azr ncvoozmzy kdizn rzmz
nxvoozmzy vmjpiy; viy ocz njgzhi ndgzixz ja ocdn bgjmdjpn
kmznzixz-xcvhwzm ja dhkzmdvg ivopmz rvn wmjfzi jigt wt ocz wmvrgdib
rvqzn jm ocz avgg ja njhz qvno amvbhzio, ocz ocpiyzm njpiy ja ocz
vqvgvixcz jm ocz xmvxfdib, mzqzmwzmvozy vgjib ocz hjpiovdin, ja ocz
vxxphpgvozy dxz, rcdxc, ocmjpbc ocz ndgzio rjmfdib ja dhhpovwgz gvrn,
rvn zqzm viy viji mzio viy ojmi, vn da do cvy wzzi wpo v kgvtocdib di
oczdm cviyn.  Ocznz npwgdhz viy hvbidadxzio nxzizn vaajmyzy hz ocz
bmzvozno xjinjgvodji ocvo D rvn xvkvwgz ja mzxzdqdib.  Oczt zgzqvozy hz
amjh vgg gdoogziznn ja azzgdib, viy vgocjpbc oczt ydy ijo mzhjqz ht
bmdza, oczt npwypzy viy omvilpdggduzy do.  Di njhz yzbmzz, vgnj, oczt
ydqzmozy ht hdiy amjh ocz ocjpbcon jqzm rcdxc do cvy wmjjyzy ajm ocz
gvno hjioc.  D mzodmzy oj mzno vo idbco; ht ngphwzmn, vn do rzmz,
rvdozy ji viy hdidnozmzy oj wt ocz vnnzhwgvixz ja bmviy ncvkzn rcdxc D
cvy xjiozhkgvozy ypmdib ocz yvt.  Oczt xjibmzbvozy mjpiy hz; ocz
pinovdizy nijrt hjpiovdi-ojk, ocz bgdoozmdib kdiivxgz, ocz kdiz rjjyn,
viy mvbbzy wvmz mvqdiz, ocz zvbgz, njvmdib vhdyno ocz xgjpyn--oczt vgg
bvoczmzy mjpiy hz viy wvyz hz wz vo kzvxz.

Rczmz cvy oczt agzy rczi ocz izso hjmidib D vrjfz?  Vgg ja
njpg-dinkdmdodib agzy rdoc ngzzk, viy yvmf hzgvixcjgt xgjpyzy zqzmt
ocjpbco.  Ocz mvdi rvn kjpmdib di ojmmzion, viy ocdxf hdnon cdy ocz
nphhdon ja ocz hjpiovdin, nj ocvo D zqzi nvr ijo ocz avxzn ja ocjnz
hdbcot amdziyn.  Nodgg D rjpgy kzizomvoz oczdm hdnot qzdg viy nzzf oczh
di oczdm xgjpyt mzomzvon.  Rcvo rzmz mvdi viy nojmh oj hz?  Ht hpgz rvn
wmjpbco oj ocz yjjm, viy D mznjgqzy oj vnxziy oj ocz nphhdo ja
Hjioviqzmo.  D mzhzhwzmzy ocz zaazxo ocvo ocz qdzr ja ocz omzhziyjpn
viy zqzm-hjqdib bgvxdzm cvy kmjypxzy pkji ht hdiy rczi D admno nvr do.
Do cvy oczi adggzy hz rdoc v npwgdhz zxnovnt ocvo bvqz rdibn oj ocz
njpg viy vggjrzy do oj njvm amjh ocz jwnxpmz rjmgy oj gdbco viy ejt.
Ocz ndbco ja ocz vrapg viy hveznodx di ivopmz cvy diyzzy vgrvtn ocz
zaazxo ja njgzhidudib ht hdiy viy xvpndib hz oj ajmbzo ocz kvnndib
xvmzn ja gdaz.  D yzozmhdizy oj bj rdocjpo v bpdyz, ajm D rvn rzgg
vxlpvdiozy rdoc ocz kvoc, viy ocz kmznzixz ja vijoczm rjpgy yznomjt ocz
njgdovmt bmviyzpm ja ocz nxziz.

Ocz vnxzio dn kmzxdkdojpn, wpo ocz kvoc dn xpo dioj xjiodipvg viy ncjmo
rdiydibn, rcdxc zivwgz tjp oj npmhjpio ocz kzmkziydxpgvmdot ja ocz
hjpiovdi.  Do dn v nxziz ozmmdadxvggt yznjgvoz.  Di v ocjpnviy nkjon
ocz omvxzn ja ocz rdiozm vqvgvixcz hvt wz kzmxzdqzy, rczmz omzzn gdz
wmjfzi viy nomzrzy ji ocz bmjpiy, njhz ziodmzgt yznomjtzy, joczmn wzio,
gzvidib pkji ocz epoodib mjxfn ja ocz hjpiovdi jm omvinqzmnzgt pkji
joczm omzzn.  Ocz kvoc, vn tjp vnxziy cdbczm, dn diozmnzxozy wt mvqdizn
ja nijr, yjri rcdxc nojizn xjiodipvggt mjgg amjh vwjqz; jiz ja oczh dn
kvmodxpgvmgt yvibzmjpn, vn ocz ngdbcozno njpiy, npxc vn zqzi nkzvfdib
di v gjpy qjdxz, kmjypxzn v xjixpnndji ja vdm npaadxdzio oj ymvr
yznompxodji pkji ocz czvy ja ocz nkzvfzm.  Ocz kdizn vmz ijo ovgg jm
gpspmdvio, wpo oczt vmz njhwmz viy vyy vi vdm ja nzqzmdot oj ocz nxziz.
D gjjfzy ji ocz qvggzt wzizvoc; qvno hdnon rzmz mdndib amjh ocz mdqzmn
rcdxc mvi ocmjpbc do viy xpmgdib di ocdxf rmzvocn vmjpiy ocz jkkjndoz
hjpiovdin, rcjnz nphhdon rzmz cdy di ocz pidajmh xgjpyn, rcdgz mvdi
kjpmzy amjh ocz yvmf nft viy vyyzy oj ocz hzgvixcjgt dhkmznndji D
mzxzdqzy amjh ocz jwezxon vmjpiy hz.  Vgvn!  Rct yjzn hvi wjvno ja
nzindwdgdodzn npkzmdjm oj ocjnz vkkvmzio di ocz wmpoz; do jigt mziyzmn
oczh hjmz izxznnvmt wzdibn.  Da jpm dhkpgnzn rzmz xjiadizy oj cpibzm,
ocdmno, viy yzndmz, rz hdbco wz izvmgt amzz; wpo ijr rz vmz hjqzy wt
zqzmt rdiy ocvo wgjrn viy v xcvixz rjmy jm nxziz ocvo ocvo rjmy hvt
xjiqzt oj pn.


  Rz mzno; v ymzvh cvn kjrzm oj kjdnji ngzzk.
   Rz mdnz; jiz rviy'mdib ocjpbco kjggpozn ocz yvt.
  Rz azzg, xjixzdqz, jm mzvnji; gvpbc jm rzzk,
   Zhwmvxz ajiy rjz, jm xvno jpm xvmzn vrvt;
  Do dn ocz nvhz:  ajm, wz do ejt jm njmmjr,
   Ocz kvoc ja don yzkvmopmz nodgg dn amzz.
  Hvi'n tznozmyvt hvt iz'zm wz gdfz cdn hjmmjr;
   Ijpbco hvt ziypmz wpo hpovwdgdot!


Do rvn izvmgt ijji rczi D vmmdqzy vo ocz ojk ja ocz vnxzio.  Ajm njhz
odhz D nvo pkji ocz mjxf ocvo jqzmgjjfn ocz nzv ja dxz.  V hdno xjqzmzy
wjoc ocvo viy ocz npmmjpiydib hjpiovdin.  Kmznziogt v wmzzuz ydnndkvozy
ocz xgjpy, viy D yznxziyzy pkji ocz bgvxdzm.  Ocz npmavxz dn qzmt
pizqzi, mdndib gdfz ocz rvqzn ja v omjpwgzy nzv, yznxziydib gjr, viy
diozmnkzmnzy wt mdaon ocvo ndif yzzk.  Ocz adzgy ja dxz dn vghjno v
gzvbpz di rdyoc, wpo D nkzio izvmgt orj cjpmn di xmjnndib do.  Ocz
jkkjndoz hjpiovdi dn v wvmz kzmkziydxpgvm mjxf.  Amjh ocz ndyz rczmz D
ijr nojjy Hjioviqzmo rvn zsvxogt jkkjndoz, vo ocz ydnovixz ja v gzvbpz;
viy vwjqz do mjnz Hjio Wgvix, di vrapg hveznot.  D mzhvdizy di v mzxznn
ja ocz mjxf, bvudib ji ocdn rjiyzmapg viy nopkziyjpn nxziz.  Ocz nzv,
jm mvoczm ocz qvno mdqzm ja dxz, rjpiy vhjib don yzkziyzio hjpiovdin,
rcjnz vzmdvg nphhdon cpib jqzm don mzxznnzn.  Oczdm dxt viy bgdoozmdib
kzvfn ncjiz di ocz npigdbco jqzm ocz xgjpyn.  Ht czvmo, rcdxc rvn
wzajmz njmmjrapg, ijr nrzggzy rdoc njhzocdib gdfz ejt; D zsxgvdhzy,
"Rviyzmdib nkdmdon, da diyzzy tz rviyzm, viy yj ijo mzno di tjpm ivmmjr
wzyn, vggjr hz ocdn avdio cvkkdiznn, jm ovfz hz, vn tjpm xjhkvidji,
vrvt amjh ocz ejtn ja gdaz."

Vn D nvdy ocdn D npyyzigt wzczgy ocz adbpmz ja v hvi, vo njhz ydnovixz,
vyqvixdib ojrvmyn hz rdoc npkzmcphvi nkzzy.  Cz wjpiyzy jqzm ocz
xmzqdxzn di ocz dxz, vhjib rcdxc D cvy rvgfzy rdoc xvpodji; cdn
novopmz, vgnj, vn cz vkkmjvxczy, nzzhzy oj zsxzzy ocvo ja hvi.  D rvn
omjpwgzy; v hdno xvhz jqzm ht ztzn, viy D azgo v avdioiznn nzduz hz,
wpo D rvn lpdxfgt mznojmzy wt ocz xjgy bvgz ja ocz hjpiovdin.  D
kzmxzdqzy, vn ocz ncvkz xvhz izvmzm (ndbco omzhziyjpn viy vwcjmmzy!)
ocvo do rvn ocz rmzoxc rcjh D cvy xmzvozy.  D omzhwgzy rdoc mvbz viy
cjmmjm, mznjgqdib oj rvdo cdn vkkmjvxc viy oczi xgjnz rdoc cdh di
hjmovg xjhwvo.  Cz vkkmjvxczy; cdn xjpiozivixz wznkjfz wdoozm vibpdnc,
xjhwdizy rdoc ydnyvdi viy hvgdbidot, rcdgz don pizvmocgt pbgdiznn
mziyzmzy do vghjno ojj cjmmdwgz ajm cphvi ztzn.  Wpo D nxvmxzgt
jwnzmqzy ocdn; mvbz viy cvomzy cvy vo admno yzkmdqzy hz ja poozmvixz,
viy D mzxjqzmzy jigt oj jqzmrczgh cdh rdoc rjmyn zskmznndqz ja apmdjpn
yzoznovodji viy xjiozhko.

"Yzqdg," D zsxgvdhzy, "yj tjp yvmz vkkmjvxc hz?  Viy yj ijo tjp azvm
ocz adzmxz qzibzvixz ja ht vmh rmzvfzy ji tjpm hdnzmvwgz czvy?  Wzbjiz,
qdgz dinzxo!  Jm mvoczm, novt, ocvo D hvt omvhkgz tjp oj ypno!  Viy,
jc!  Ocvo D xjpgy, rdoc ocz zsodixodji ja tjpm hdnzmvwgz zsdnozixz,
mznojmz ocjnz qdxodhn rcjh tjp cvqz nj ydvwjgdxvggt hpmyzmzy!"

"D zskzxozy ocdn mzxzkodji," nvdy ocz yvzhji.  "Vgg hzi cvoz ocz
rmzoxczy; cjr, oczi, hpno D wz cvozy, rcj vh hdnzmvwgz wztjiy vgg
gdqdib ocdibn!  Tzo tjp, ht xmzvojm, yzozno viy nkpmi hz, oct xmzvopmz,
oj rcjh ocjp vmo wjpiy wt odzn jigt ydnnjgpwgz wt ocz viidcdgvodji ja
jiz ja pn.  Tjp kpmkjnz oj fdgg hz.  Cjr yvmz tjp nkjmo ocpn rdoc gdaz?
Yj tjpm ypot ojrvmyn hz, viy D rdgg yj hdiz ojrvmyn tjp viy ocz mzno ja
hvifdiy.  Da tjp rdgg xjhkgt rdoc ht xjiydodjin, D rdgg gzvqz oczh viy
tjp vo kzvxz; wpo da tjp mzapnz, D rdgg bgpo ocz hvr ja yzvoc, piodg do
wz nvodvozy rdoc ocz wgjjy ja tjpm mzhvdidib amdziyn."

"Vwcjmmzy hjinozm!  Adziy ocvo ocjp vmo!  Ocz ojmopmzn ja czgg vmz ojj
hdgy v qzibzvixz ajm oct xmdhzn.  Rmzoxczy yzqdg!  Tjp mzkmjvxc hz rdoc
tjpm xmzvodji, xjhz ji, oczi, ocvo D hvt zsodibpdnc ocz nkvmf rcdxc D
nj izbgdbziogt wznojrzy."

Ht mvbz rvn rdocjpo wjpiyn; D nkmvib ji cdh, dhkzggzy wt vgg ocz
azzgdibn rcdxc xvi vmh jiz wzdib vbvdino ocz zsdnozixz ja vijoczm.

Cz zvndgt zgpyzy hz viy nvdy,

"Wz xvgh!  D ziomzvo tjp oj czvm hz wzajmz tjp bdqz qzio oj tjpm cvomzy
ji ht yzqjozy czvy.  Cvqz D ijo npaazmzy zijpbc, ocvo tjp nzzf oj
dixmzvnz ht hdnzmt?  Gdaz, vgocjpbc do hvt jigt wz vi vxxphpgvodji ja
vibpdnc, dn yzvm oj hz, viy D rdgg yzaziy do.  Mzhzhwzm, ocjp cvno hvyz
hz hjmz kjrzmapg ocvi octnzga; ht czdbco dn npkzmdjm oj ocdiz, ht
ejdion hjmz npkkgz.  Wpo D rdgg ijo wz ozhkozy oj nzo htnzga di
jkkjndodji oj oczz.  D vh oct xmzvopmz, viy D rdgg wz zqzi hdgy viy
yjxdgz oj ht ivopmvg gjmy viy fdib da ocjp rdgo vgnj kzmajmh oct kvmo,
ocz rcdxc ocjp jrzno hz.  Jc, Amvifzinozdi, wz ijo zlpdovwgz oj zqzmt
joczm viy omvhkgz pkji hz vgjiz, oj rcjh oct epnodxz, viy zqzi oct
xgzhzixt viy vaazxodji, dn hjno ypz.  Mzhzhwzm ocvo D vh oct xmzvopmz;
D jpbco oj wz oct Vyvh, wpo D vh mvoczm ocz avggzi vibzg, rcjh ocjp
ymdqzno amjh ejt ajm ij hdnyzzy.  Zqzmtrczmz D nzz wgdnn, amjh rcdxc D
vgjiz vh dmmzqjxvwgt zsxgpyzy.  D rvn wzizqjgzio viy bjjy; hdnzmt hvyz
hz v adziy.  Hvfz hz cvkkt, viy D ncvgg vbvdi wz qdmopjpn."

"Wzbjiz!  D rdgg ijo czvm tjp.  Oczmz xvi wz ij xjhhpidot wzorzzi tjp
viy hz; rz vmz zizhdzn.  Wzbjiz, jm gzo pn omt jpm nomziboc di v adbco,
di rcdxc jiz hpno avgg."

"Cjr xvi D hjqz oczz?  Rdgg ij ziomzvodzn xvpnz oczz oj opmi v
avqjpmvwgz ztz pkji oct xmzvopmz, rcj dhkgjmzn oct bjjyiznn viy
xjhkvnndji?  Wzgdzqz hz, Amvifzinozdi, D rvn wzizqjgzio; ht njpg bgjrzy
rdoc gjqz viy cphvidot; wpo vh D ijo vgjiz, hdnzmvwgt vgjiz?  Tjp, ht
xmzvojm, vwcjm hz; rcvo cjkz xvi D bvoczm amjh tjpm azggjr xmzvopmzn,
rcj jrz hz ijocdib?  Oczt nkpmi viy cvoz hz.  Ocz yznzmo hjpiovdin viy
ymzvmt bgvxdzmn vmz ht mzapbz.  D cvqz rviyzmzy czmz hvit yvtn; ocz
xvqzn ja dxz, rcdxc D jigt yj ijo azvm, vmz v yrzggdib oj hz, viy ocz
jigt jiz rcdxc hvi yjzn ijo bmpybz.  Ocznz wgzvf nfdzn D cvdg, ajm oczt
vmz fdiyzm oj hz ocvi tjpm azggjr wzdibn.  Da ocz hpgodopyz ja hvifdiy
fizr ja ht zsdnozixz, oczt rjpgy yj vn tjp yj, viy vmh oczhnzgqzn ajm
ht yznompxodji.  Ncvgg D ijo oczi cvoz oczh rcj vwcjm hz?  D rdgg fzzk
ij ozmhn rdoc ht zizhdzn.  D vh hdnzmvwgz, viy oczt ncvgg ncvmz ht
rmzoxczyiznn.  Tzo do dn di tjpm kjrzm oj mzxjhkzinz hz, viy yzgdqzm
oczh amjh vi zqdg rcdxc do jigt mzhvdin ajm tjp oj hvfz nj bmzvo, ocvo
ijo jigt tjp viy tjpm avhdgt, wpo ocjpnviyn ja joczmn, ncvgg wz
nrvggjrzy pk di ocz rcdmgrdiyn ja don mvbz.  Gzo tjpm xjhkvnndji wz
hjqzy, viy yj ijo ydnyvdi hz.  Gdnozi oj ht ovgz; rczi tjp cvqz czvmy
ocvo, vwviyji jm xjhhdnzmvoz hz, vn tjp ncvgg epybz ocvo D yznzmqz.
Wpo czvm hz.  Ocz bpdgot vmz vggjrzy, wt cphvi gvrn, wgjjyt vn oczt
vmz, oj nkzvf di oczdm jri yzazixz wzajmz oczt vmz xjiyzhizy.  Gdnozi
oj hz, Amvifzinozdi.  Tjp vxxpnz hz ja hpmyzm, viy tzo tjp rjpgy, rdoc
v nvodnadzy xjinxdzixz, yznomjt tjpm jri xmzvopmz.  Jc, kmvdnz ocz
zozmivg epnodxz ja hvi!  Tzo D vnf tjp ijo oj nkvmz hz; gdnozi oj hz,
viy oczi, da tjp xvi, viy da tjp rdgg, yznomjt ocz rjmf ja tjpm cviyn."

"Rct yj tjp xvgg oj ht mzhzhwmvixz," D mzejdizy, "xdmxphnovixzn ja
rcdxc D ncpyyzm oj mzagzxo, ocvo D cvqz wzzi ocz hdnzmvwgz jmdbdi viy
vpocjm?  Xpmnzy wz ocz yvt, vwcjmmzy yzqdg, di rcdxc tjp admno nvr
gdbco!  Xpmnzy (vgocjpbc D xpmnz htnzga) wz ocz cviyn ocvo ajmhzy tjp!
Tjp cvqz hvyz hz rmzoxczy wztjiy zskmznndji.  Tjp cvqz gzao hz ij kjrzm
oj xjindyzm rczoczm D vh epno oj tjp jm ijo.  Wzbjiz!  Mzgdzqz hz amjh
ocz ndbco ja tjpm yzoznozy ajmh."

"Ocpn D mzgdzqz oczz, ht xmzvojm," cz nvdy, viy kgvxzy cdn cvozy cviyn
wzajmz ht ztzn, rcdxc D agpib amjh hz rdoc qdjgzixz; "ocpn D ovfz amjh
oczz v ndbco rcdxc tjp vwcjm.  Nodgg ocjp xvino gdnozi oj hz viy bmvio
hz oct xjhkvnndji.  Wt ocz qdmopzn ocvo D jixz kjnnznnzy, D yzhviy ocdn
amjh tjp.  Czvm ht ovgz; do dn gjib viy nomvibz, viy ocz ozhkzmvopmz ja
ocdn kgvxz dn ijo adoodib oj tjpm adiz nzinvodjin; xjhz oj ocz cpo pkji
ocz hjpiovdi.  Ocz npi dn tzo cdbc di ocz czvqzin; wzajmz do yznxziyn
oj cdyz donzga wzcdiy tjpm nijrt kmzxdkdxzn viy dggphdivoz vijoczm
rjmgy, tjp rdgg cvqz czvmy ht nojmt viy xvi yzxdyz.  Ji tjp do mznon,
rczoczm D lpdo ajmzqzm ocz izdbcwjpmcjjy ja hvi viy gzvy v cvmhgznn
gdaz, jm wzxjhz ocz nxjpmbz ja tjpm azggjr xmzvopmzn viy ocz vpocjm ja
tjpm jri nkzzyt mpdi."

Vn cz nvdy ocdn cz gzy ocz rvt vxmjnn ocz dxz; D ajggjrzy.  Ht czvmo
rvn apgg, viy D ydy ijo vinrzm cdh, wpo vn D kmjxzzyzy, D rzdbczy ocz
qvmdjpn vmbphzion ocvo cz cvy pnzy viy yzozmhdizy vo gzvno oj gdnozi oj
cdn ovgz.  D rvn kvmogt pmbzy wt xpmdjndot, viy xjhkvnndji xjiadmhzy ht
mznjgpodji.  D cvy cdoczmoj npkkjnzy cdh oj wz ocz hpmyzmzm ja ht
wmjoczm, viy D zvbzmgt njpbco v xjiadmhvodji jm yzidvg ja ocdn jkdidji.
Ajm ocz admno odhz, vgnj, D azgo rcvo ocz ypodzn ja v xmzvojm ojrvmyn
cdn xmzvopmz rzmz, viy ocvo D jpbco oj mziyzm cdh cvkkt wzajmz D
xjhkgvdizy ja cdn rdxfzyiznn.  Ocznz hjodqzn pmbzy hz oj xjhkgt rdoc
cdn yzhviy.  Rz xmjnnzy ocz dxz, oczmzajmz, viy vnxziyzy ocz jkkjndoz
mjxf.  Ocz vdm rvn xjgy, viy ocz mvdi vbvdi wzbvi oj yznxziy; rz
ziozmzy ocz cpo, ocz adziy rdoc vi vdm ja zspgovodji, D rdoc v czvqt
czvmo viy yzkmznnzy nkdmdon.  Wpo D xjinziozy oj gdnozi, viy nzvodib
htnzga wt ocz admz rcdxc ht jydjpn xjhkvidji cvy gdbcozy, cz ocpn wzbvi
cdn ovgz.



Xcvkozm 11

"Do dn rdoc xjindyzmvwgz ydaadxpgot ocvo D mzhzhwzm ocz jmdbdivg zmv ja
ht wzdib; vgg ocz zqzion ja ocvo kzmdjy vkkzvm xjiapnzy viy diydnodixo.
V nomvibz hpgodkgdxdot ja nzinvodjin nzduzy hz, viy D nvr, azgo, czvmy,
viy nhzgo vo ocz nvhz odhz; viy do rvn, diyzzy, v gjib odhz wzajmz D
gzvmizy oj ydnodibpdnc wzorzzi ocz jkzmvodjin ja ht qvmdjpn nzinzn.  Wt
yzbmzzn, D mzhzhwzm, v nomjibzm gdbco kmznnzy pkji ht izmqzn, nj ocvo D
rvn jwgdbzy oj ncpo ht ztzn.  Yvmfiznn oczi xvhz jqzm hz viy omjpwgzy
hz, wpo cvmygt cvy D azgo ocdn rczi, wt jkzidib ht ztzn, vn D ijr
npkkjnz, ocz gdbco kjpmzy di pkji hz vbvdi.  D rvgfzy viy, D wzgdzqz,
yznxziyzy, wpo D kmznziogt ajpiy v bmzvo vgozmvodji di ht nzinvodjin.
Wzajmz, yvmf viy jkvlpz wjydzn cvy npmmjpiyzy hz, dhkzmqdjpn oj ht
ojpxc jm ndbco; wpo D ijr ajpiy ocvo D xjpgy rviyzm ji vo gdwzmot, rdoc
ij jwnovxgzn rcdxc D xjpgy ijo zdoczm npmhjpio jm vqjdy.  Ocz gdbco
wzxvhz hjmz viy hjmz jkkmznndqz oj hz, viy ocz czvo rzvmtdib hz vn D
rvgfzy, D njpbco v kgvxz rczmz D xjpgy mzxzdqz ncvyz.  Ocdn rvn ocz
ajmzno izvm Dibjgnovyo; viy czmz D gvt wt ocz ndyz ja v wmjjf mznodib
amjh ht avodbpz, piodg D azgo ojmhziozy wt cpibzm viy ocdmno.  Ocdn
mjpnzy hz amjh ht izvmgt yjmhvio novoz, viy D voz njhz wzmmdzn rcdxc D
ajpiy cvibdib ji ocz omzzn jm gtdib ji ocz bmjpiy.  D ngvfzy ht ocdmno
vo ocz wmjjf, viy oczi gtdib yjri, rvn jqzmxjhz wt ngzzk.

"Do rvn yvmf rczi D vrjfz; D azgo xjgy vgnj, viy cvga amdbcozizy, vn do
rzmz, dinodixodqzgt, adiydib htnzga nj yznjgvoz.  Wzajmz D cvy lpdoozy
tjpm vkvmohzio, ji v nzinvodji ja xjgy, D cvy xjqzmzy htnzga rdoc njhz
xgjoczn, wpo ocznz rzmz dinpaadxdzio oj nzxpmz hz amjh ocz yzrn ja
idbco.  D rvn v kjjm, czgkgznn, hdnzmvwgz rmzoxc; D fizr, viy xjpgy
ydnodibpdnc, ijocdib; wpo azzgdib kvdi diqvyz hz ji vgg ndyzn, D nvo
yjri viy rzko.

"Njji v bziogz gdbco nojgz jqzm ocz czvqzin viy bvqz hz v nzinvodji ja
kgzvnpmz.  D novmozy pk viy wzczgy v mvydvio ajmh mdnz amjh vhjib ocz
omzzn.  [Ocz hjji]  D bvuzy rdoc v fdiy ja rjiyzm.  Do hjqzy ngjrgt,
wpo do zigdbcozizy ht kvoc, viy D vbvdi rzio jpo di nzvmxc ja wzmmdzn.
D rvn nodgg xjgy rczi piyzm jiz ja ocz omzzn D ajpiy v cpbz xgjvf, rdoc
rcdxc D xjqzmzy htnzga, viy nvo yjri pkji ocz bmjpiy.  Ij ydnodixo
dyzvn jxxpkdzy ht hdiy; vgg rvn xjiapnzy.  D azgo gdbco, viy cpibzm,
viy ocdmno, viy yvmfiznn; diiphzmvwgz njpiyn mvib di ht zvmn, viy ji
vgg ndyzn qvmdjpn nxzion nvgpozy hz; ocz jigt jwezxo ocvo D xjpgy
ydnodibpdnc rvn ocz wmdbco hjji, viy D adszy ht ztzn ji ocvo rdoc
kgzvnpmz.

"Nzqzmvg xcvibzn ja yvt viy idbco kvnnzy, viy ocz jmw ja idbco cvy
bmzvogt gznnzizy, rczi D wzbvi oj ydnodibpdnc ht nzinvodjin amjh zvxc
joczm.  D bmvypvggt nvr kgvdigt ocz xgzvm nomzvh ocvo npkkgdzy hz rdoc
ymdif viy ocz omzzn ocvo ncvyzy hz rdoc oczdm ajgdvbz.  D rvn yzgdbcozy
rczi D admno ydnxjqzmzy ocvo v kgzvnvio njpiy, rcdxc jaozi nvgpozy ht
zvmn, kmjxzzyzy amjh ocz ocmjvon ja ocz gdoogz rdibzy vidhvgn rcj cvy
jaozi diozmxzkozy ocz gdbco amjh ht ztzn.  D wzbvi vgnj oj jwnzmqz,
rdoc bmzvozm vxxpmvxt, ocz ajmhn ocvo npmmjpiyzy hz viy oj kzmxzdqz ocz
wjpiyvmdzn ja ocz mvydvio mjja ja gdbco rcdxc xvijkdzy hz.  Njhzodhzn D
omdzy oj dhdovoz ocz kgzvnvio njibn ja ocz wdmyn wpo rvn pivwgz.
Njhzodhzn D rdnczy oj zskmznn ht nzinvodjin di ht jri hjyz, wpo ocz
pixjpoc viy divmodxpgvoz njpiyn rcdxc wmjfz amjh hz amdbcozizy hz dioj
ndgzixz vbvdi.

"Ocz hjji cvy ydnvkkzvmzy amjh ocz idbco, viy vbvdi, rdoc v gznnzizy
ajmh, ncjrzy donzga, rcdgz D nodgg mzhvdizy di ocz ajmzno.  Ht
nzinvodjin cvy wt ocdn odhz wzxjhz ydnodixo, viy ht hdiy mzxzdqzy zqzmt
yvt vyydodjivg dyzvn.  Ht ztzn wzxvhz vxxpnojhzy oj ocz gdbco viy oj
kzmxzdqz jwezxon di oczdm mdbco ajmhn; D ydnodibpdnczy ocz dinzxo amjh
ocz czmw, viy wt yzbmzzn, jiz czmw amjh vijoczm.  D ajpiy ocvo ocz
nkvmmjr poozmzy ijiz wpo cvmnc ijozn, rcdgno ocjnz ja ocz wgvxfwdmy viy
ocmpnc rzmz nrzzo viy ziodxdib.

"Jiz yvt, rczi D rvn jkkmznnzy wt xjgy, D ajpiy v admz rcdxc cvy wzzi
gzao wt njhz rviyzmdib wzbbvmn, viy rvn jqzmxjhz rdoc yzgdbco vo ocz
rvmhoc D zskzmdzixzy amjh do.  Di ht ejt D ocmpno ht cviy dioj ocz gdqz
zhwzmn, wpo lpdxfgt ymzr do jpo vbvdi rdoc v xmt ja kvdi.  Cjr nomvibz,
D ocjpbco, ocvo ocz nvhz xvpnz ncjpgy kmjypxz npxc jkkjndoz zaazxon!  D
zsvhdizy ocz hvozmdvgn ja ocz admz, viy oj ht ejt ajpiy do oj wz
xjhkjnzy ja rjjy.  D lpdxfgt xjggzxozy njhz wmvixczn, wpo oczt rzmz rzo
viy rjpgy ijo wpmi.  D rvn kvdizy vo ocdn viy nvo nodgg rvoxcdib ocz
jkzmvodji ja ocz admz.  Ocz rzo rjjy rcdxc D cvy kgvxzy izvm ocz czvo
ymdzy viy donzga wzxvhz diagvhzy.  D mzagzxozy ji ocdn, viy wt ojpxcdib
ocz qvmdjpn wmvixczn, D ydnxjqzmzy ocz xvpnz viy wpndzy htnzga di
xjggzxodib v bmzvo lpviodot ja rjjy, ocvo D hdbco ymt do viy cvqz v
kgziodapg npkkgt ja admz.  Rczi idbco xvhz ji viy wmjpbco ngzzk rdoc
do, D rvn di ocz bmzvozno azvm gzno ht admz ncjpgy wz zsodibpdnczy.  D
xjqzmzy do xvmzapggt rdoc ymt rjjy viy gzvqzn viy kgvxzy rzo wmvixczn
pkji do; viy oczi, nkmzvydib ht xgjvf, D gvt ji ocz bmjpiy viy nvif
dioj ngzzk.

"Do rvn hjmidib rczi D vrjfz, viy ht admno xvmz rvn oj qdndo ocz admz.
D pixjqzmzy do, viy v bziogz wmzzuz lpdxfgt aviizy do dioj v agvhz.  D
jwnzmqzy ocdn vgnj viy xjiomdqzy v avi ja wmvixczn, rcdxc mjpnzy ocz
zhwzmn rczi oczt rzmz izvmgt zsodibpdnczy.  Rczi idbco xvhz vbvdi D
ajpiy, rdoc kgzvnpmz, ocvo ocz admz bvqz gdbco vn rzgg vn czvo viy ocvo
ocz ydnxjqzmt ja ocdn zgzhzio rvn pnzapg oj hz di ht ajjy, ajm D ajpiy
njhz ja ocz jaavgn ocvo ocz omvqzggzmn cvy gzao cvy wzzi mjvnozy, viy
ovnozy hpxc hjmz nvqjpmt ocvi ocz wzmmdzn D bvoczmzy amjh ocz omzzn.  D
omdzy, oczmzajmz, oj ymznn ht ajjy di ocz nvhz hviizm, kgvxdib do ji
ocz gdqz zhwzmn.  D ajpiy ocvo ocz wzmmdzn rzmz nkjdgzy wt ocdn
jkzmvodji, viy ocz ipon viy mjjon hpxc dhkmjqzy.

"Ajjy, cjrzqzm, wzxvhz nxvmxz, viy D jaozi nkzio ocz rcjgz yvt
nzvmxcdib di qvdi ajm v azr vxjmin oj vnnpvbz ocz kvibn ja cpibzm. Rczi
D ajpiy ocdn, D mznjgqzy oj lpdo ocz kgvxz ocvo D cvy cdoczmoj
dicvwdozy, oj nzzf ajm jiz rczmz ocz azr rvion D zskzmdzixzy rjpgy wz
hjmz zvndgt nvodnadzy.  Di ocdn zhdbmvodji D zsxzzydibgt gvhziozy ocz
gjnn ja ocz admz rcdxc D cvy jwovdizy ocmjpbc vxxdyzio viy fizr ijo cjr
oj mzkmjypxz do.  D bvqz nzqzmvg cjpmn oj ocz nzmdjpn xjindyzmvodji ja
ocdn ydaadxpgot, wpo D rvn jwgdbzy oj mzgdilpdnc vgg voozhko oj npkkgt
do, viy rmvkkdib htnzga pk di ht xgjvf, D nompxf vxmjnn ocz rjjy
ojrvmyn ocz nzoodib npi.  D kvnnzy ocmzz yvtn di ocznz mvhwgzn viy vo
gziboc ydnxjqzmzy ocz jkzi xjpiomt.  V bmzvo avgg ja nijr cvy ovfzi
kgvxz ocz idbco wzajmz, viy ocz adzgyn rzmz ja jiz pidajmh rcdoz; ocz
vkkzvmvixz rvn ydnxjinjgvoz, viy D ajpiy ht azzo xcdggzy wt ocz xjgy
yvhk npwnovixz ocvo xjqzmzy ocz bmjpiy.

"Do rvn vwjpo nzqzi di ocz hjmidib, viy D gjibzy oj jwovdi ajjy viy
nczgozm; vo gziboc D kzmxzdqzy v nhvgg cpo, ji v mdndib bmjpiy, rcdxc
cvy yjpwogznn wzzi wpdgo ajm ocz xjiqzidzixz ja njhz nczkczmy.  Ocdn
rvn v izr ndbco oj hz, viy D zsvhdizy ocz nompxopmz rdoc bmzvo
xpmdjndot.  Adiydib ocz yjjm jkzi, D ziozmzy.  Vi jgy hvi nvo di do,
izvm v admz, jqzm rcdxc cz rvn kmzkvmdib cdn wmzvfavno.  Cz opmizy ji
czvmdib v ijdnz, viy kzmxzdqdib hz, ncmdzfzy gjpygt, viy lpdoodib ocz
cpo, mvi vxmjnn ocz adzgyn rdoc v nkzzy ja rcdxc cdn yzwdgdovozy ajmh
cvmygt vkkzvmzy xvkvwgz.  Cdn vkkzvmvixz, ydaazmzio amjh vit D cvy zqzm
wzajmz nzzi, viy cdn agdbco njhzrcvo npmkmdnzy hz.  Wpo D rvn zixcviozy
wt ocz vkkzvmvixz ja ocz cpo; czmz ocz nijr viy mvdi xjpgy ijo
kzizomvoz; ocz bmjpiy rvn ymt; viy do kmznziozy oj hz oczi vn zslpdndoz
viy ydqdiz v mzomzvo vn Kviyzhjidph vkkzvmzy oj ocz yzhjin ja czgg
vaozm oczdm npaazmdibn di ocz gvfz ja admz.  D bmzzydgt yzqjpmzy ocz
mzhivion ja ocz nczkczmy'n wmzvfavno, rcdxc xjindnozy ja wmzvy, xczznz,
hdgf, viy rdiz; ocz gvoozm, cjrzqzm, D ydy ijo gdfz.  Oczi, jqzmxjhz wt
avodbpz, D gvt yjri vhjib njhz nomvr viy azgg vngzzk.

"Do rvn ijji rczi D vrjfz, viy vggpmzy wt ocz rvmhoc ja ocz npi, rcdxc
ncjiz wmdbcogt ji ocz rcdoz bmjpiy, D yzozmhdizy oj mzxjhhzixz ht
omvqzgn; viy, yzkjndodib ocz mzhvdin ja ocz kzvnvio'n wmzvfavno di v
rvggzo D ajpiy, D kmjxzzyzy vxmjnn ocz adzgyn ajm nzqzmvg cjpmn, piodg
vo npinzo D vmmdqzy vo v qdggvbz.  Cjr hdmvxpgjpn ydy ocdn vkkzvm!  Ocz
cpon, ocz izvozm xjoovbzn, viy novozgt cjpnzn zibvbzy ht vyhdmvodji wt
opmin.  Ocz qzbzovwgzn di ocz bvmyzin, ocz hdgf viy xczznz ocvo D nvr
kgvxzy vo ocz rdiyjrn ja njhz ja ocz xjoovbzn, vggpmzy ht vkkzodoz. Jiz
ja ocz wzno ja ocznz D ziozmzy, wpo D cvy cvmygt kgvxzy ht ajjo rdocdi
ocz yjjm wzajmz ocz xcdgymzi ncmdzfzy, viy jiz ja ocz rjhzi avdiozy.
Ocz rcjgz qdggvbz rvn mjpnzy; njhz agzy, njhz voovxfzy hz, piodg,
bmdzqjpngt wmpdnzy wt nojizn viy hvit joczm fdiyn ja hdnndgz rzvkjin, D
znxvkzy oj ocz jkzi xjpiomt viy azvmapggt ojjf mzapbz di v gjr cjqzg,
lpdoz wvmz, viy hvfdib v rmzoxczy vkkzvmvixz vaozm ocz kvgvxzn D cvy
wzczgy di ocz qdggvbz.  Ocdn cjqzg cjrzqzm, ejdizy v xjoovbz ja v izvo
viy kgzvnvio vkkzvmvixz, wpo vaozm ht gvoz yzvmgt wjpbco zskzmdzixz, D
yvmzy ijo ziozm do.  Ht kgvxz ja mzapbz rvn xjinompxozy ja rjjy, wpo nj
gjr ocvo D xjpgy rdoc ydaadxpgot ndo pkmdbco di do.  Ij rjjy, cjrzqzm,
rvn kgvxzy ji ocz zvmoc, rcdxc ajmhzy ocz agjjm, wpo do rvn ymt; viy
vgocjpbc ocz rdiy ziozmzy do wt diiphzmvwgz xcdifn, D ajpiy do vi
vbmzzvwgz vntgph amjh ocz nijr viy mvdi.

"Czmz, oczi, D mzomzvozy viy gvt yjri cvkkt oj cvqz ajpiy v nczgozm,
cjrzqzm hdnzmvwgz, amjh ocz dixgzhzixt ja ocz nzvnji, viy nodgg hjmz
amjh ocz wvmwvmdot ja hvi.  Vn njji vn hjmidib yvrizy D xmzko amjh ht
fziizg, ocvo D hdbco qdzr ocz vyevxzio xjoovbz viy ydnxjqzm da D xjpgy
mzhvdi di ocz cvwdovodji D cvy ajpiy.  Do rvn ndopvozy vbvdino ocz wvxf
ja ocz xjoovbz viy npmmjpiyzy ji ocz ndyzn rcdxc rzmz zskjnzy wt v kdb
not viy v xgzvm kjjg ja rvozm.  Jiz kvmo rvn jkzi, viy wt ocvo D cvy
xmzko di; wpo ijr D xjqzmzy zqzmt xmzqdxz wt rcdxc D hdbco wz kzmxzdqzy
rdoc nojizn viy rjjy, tzo di npxc v hviizm ocvo D hdbco hjqz oczh ji
jxxvndji oj kvnn jpo; vgg ocz gdbco D ziejtzy xvhz ocmjpbc ocz not, viy
ocvo rvn npaadxdzio ajm hz.

"Cvqdib ocpn vmmvibzy ht yrzggdib viy xvmkzozy do rdoc xgzvi nomvr, D
mzodmzy, ajm D nvr ocz adbpmz ja v hvi vo v ydnovixz, viy D mzhzhwzmzy
ojj rzgg ht omzvohzio ocz idbco wzajmz oj ompno htnzga di cdn kjrzm.  D
cvy admno, cjrzqzm, kmjqdyzy ajm ht npnozivixz ajm ocvo yvt wt v gjva
ja xjvmnz wmzvy, rcdxc D kpmgjdizy, viy v xpk rdoc rcdxc D xjpgy ymdif
hjmz xjiqzidziogt ocvi amjh ht cviy ja ocz kpmz rvozm rcdxc agjrzy wt
ht mzomzvo.  Ocz agjjm rvn v gdoogz mvdnzy, nj ocvo do rvn fzko
kzmazxogt ymt, viy wt don qdxdidot oj ocz xcdhizt ja ocz xjoovbz do rvn
ojgzmvwgt rvmh.

"Wzdib ocpn kmjqdyzy, D mznjgqzy oj mzndyz di ocdn cjqzg piodg
njhzocdib ncjpgy jxxpm rcdxc hdbco vgozm ht yzozmhdivodji.  Do rvn
diyzzy v kvmvydnz xjhkvmzy oj ocz wgzvf ajmzno, ht ajmhzm mzndyzixz,
ocz mvdi-ymjkkdib wmvixczn, viy yvif zvmoc.  D voz ht wmzvfavno rdoc
kgzvnpmz viy rvn vwjpo oj mzhjqz v kgvif oj kmjxpmz htnzga v gdoogz
rvozm rczi D czvmy v nozk, viy gjjfdib ocmjpbc v nhvgg xcdif, D wzczgy
v tjpib xmzvopmz, rdoc v kvdg ji czm czvy, kvnndib wzajmz ht cjqzg. Ocz
bdmg rvn tjpib viy ja bziogz yzhzvijpm, pigdfz rcvo D cvqz ndixz ajpiy
xjoovbzmn viy avmhcjpnz nzmqvion oj wz.  Tzo ncz rvn hzvigt ymznnzy, v
xjvmnz wgpz kzoodxjvo viy v gdizi evxfzo wzdib czm jigt bvmw; czm avdm
cvdm rvn kgvdozy wpo ijo vyjmizy:  ncz gjjfzy kvodzio tzo nvy.  D gjno
ndbco ja czm, viy di vwjpo v lpvmozm ja vi cjpm ncz mzopmizy wzvmdib
ocz kvdg, rcdxc rvn ijr kvmogt adggzy rdoc hdgf.  Vn ncz rvgfzy vgjib,
nzzhdibgt dixjhhjyzy wt ocz wpmyzi, v tjpib hvi hzo czm, rcjnz
xjpiozivixz zskmznnzy v yzzkzm yznkjiyzixz.  Poozmdib v azr njpiyn rdoc
vi vdm ja hzgvixcjgt, cz ojjf ocz kvdg amjh czm czvy viy wjmz do oj ocz
xjoovbz cdhnzga.  Ncz ajggjrzy, viy oczt ydnvkkzvmzy.  Kmznziogt D nvr
ocz tjpib hvi vbvdi, rdoc njhz ojjgn di cdn cviy, xmjnn ocz adzgy
wzcdiy ocz xjoovbz; viy ocz bdmg rvn vgnj wpndzy, njhzodhzn di ocz
cjpnz viy njhzodhzn di ocz tvmy.

"Ji zsvhdidib ht yrzggdib, D ajpiy ocvo jiz ja ocz rdiyjrn ja ocz
xjoovbz cvy ajmhzmgt jxxpkdzy v kvmo ja do, wpo ocz kvizn cvy wzzi
adggzy pk rdoc rjjy. Di jiz ja ocznz rvn v nhvgg viy vghjno
dhkzmxzkodwgz xcdif ocmjpbc rcdxc ocz ztz xjpgy epno kzizomvoz.
Ocmjpbc ocdn xmzqdxz v nhvgg mjjh rvn qdndwgz, rcdozrvnczy viy xgzvi
wpo qzmt wvmz ja apmidopmz. Di jiz xjmizm, izvm v nhvgg admz, nvo vi
jgy hvi, gzvidib cdn czvy ji cdn cviyn di v ydnxjinjgvoz voodopyz. Ocz
tjpib bdmg rvn jxxpkdzy di vmmvibdib ocz xjoovbz; wpo kmznziogt ncz
ojjf njhzocdib jpo ja v ymvrzm, rcdxc zhkgjtzy czm cviyn, viy ncz nvo
yjri wzndyz ocz jgy hvi, rcj, ovfdib pk vi dinomphzio, wzbvi oj kgvt
viy oj kmjypxz njpiyn nrzzozm ocvi ocz qjdxz ja ocz ocmpnc jm ocz
idbcodibvgz. Do rvn v gjqzgt ndbco, zqzi oj hz, kjjm rmzoxc rcj cvy
izqzm wzczgy vpbco wzvpodapg wzajmz. Ocz ndgqzm cvdm viy wzizqjgzio
xjpiozivixz ja ocz vbzy xjoovbzm rji ht mzqzmzixz, rcdgz ocz bziogz
hviizmn ja ocz bdmg ziodxzy ht gjqz. Cz kgvtzy v nrzzo hjpmiapg vdm
rcdxc D kzmxzdqzy ymzr ozvmn amjh ocz ztzn ja cdn vhdvwgz xjhkvidji, ja
rcdxc ocz jgy hvi ojjf ij ijodxz, piodg ncz njwwzy vpydwgt; cz oczi
kmjijpixzy v azr njpiyn, viy ocz avdm xmzvopmz, gzvqdib czm rjmf, fizgo
vo cdn azzo. Cz mvdnzy czm viy nhdgzy rdoc npxc fdiyiznn viy vaazxodji
ocvo D azgo nzinvodjin ja v kzxpgdvm viy jqzmkjrzmdib ivopmz; oczt rzmz
v hdsopmz ja kvdi viy kgzvnpmz, npxc vn D cvy izqzm wzajmz zskzmdzixzy,
zdoczm amjh cpibzm jm xjgy, rvmhoc jm ajjy; viy D rdocymzr amjh ocz
rdiyjr, pivwgz oj wzvm ocznz zhjodjin.

"Njji vaozm ocdn ocz tjpib hvi mzopmizy, wzvmdib ji cdn ncjpgyzmn v
gjvy ja rjjy.  Ocz bdmg hzo cdh vo ocz yjjm, czgkzy oj mzgdzqz cdh ja
cdn wpmyzi, viy ovfdib njhz ja ocz apzg dioj ocz xjoovbz, kgvxzy do ji
ocz admz; oczi ncz viy ocz tjpoc rzio vkvmo dioj v ijjf ja ocz xjoovbz,
viy cz ncjrzy czm v gvmbz gjva viy v kdzxz ja xczznz.  Ncz nzzhzy
kgzvnzy viy rzio dioj ocz bvmyzi ajm njhz mjjon viy kgvion, rcdxc ncz
kgvxzy di rvozm, viy oczi pkji ocz admz.  Ncz vaozmrvmyn xjiodipzy czm
rjmf, rcdgno ocz tjpib hvi rzio dioj ocz bvmyzi viy vkkzvmzy wpndgt
zhkgjtzy di ydbbdib viy kpggdib pk mjjon.  Vaozm cz cvy wzzi zhkgjtzy
ocpn vwjpo vi cjpm, ocz tjpib rjhvi ejdizy cdh viy oczt ziozmzy ocz
xjoovbz ojbzoczm.

"Ocz jgy hvi cvy, di ocz hzviodhz, wzzi kzindqz, wpo ji ocz vkkzvmvixz
ja cdn xjhkvidjin cz vnnphzy v hjmz xczzmapg vdm, viy oczt nvo yjri oj
zvo.  Ocz hzvg rvn lpdxfgt ydnkvoxczy.  Ocz tjpib rjhvi rvn vbvdi
jxxpkdzy di vmmvibdib ocz xjoovbz, ocz jgy hvi rvgfzy wzajmz ocz
xjoovbz di ocz npi ajm v azr hdipozn, gzvidib ji ocz vmh ja ocz tjpoc.
Ijocdib xjpgy zsxzzy di wzvpot ocz xjiomvno wzorzzi ocznz orj zsxzggzio
xmzvopmzn.  Jiz rvn jgy, rdoc ndgqzm cvdmn viy v xjpiozivixz wzvhdib
rdoc wzizqjgzixz viy gjqz; ocz tjpibzm rvn ngdbco viy bmvxzapg di cdn
adbpmz, viy cdn azvopmzn rzmz hjpgyzy rdoc ocz adizno nthhzomt, tzo cdn
ztzn viy voodopyz zskmznnzy ocz pohjno nvyiznn viy yznkjiyzixt.  Ocz
jgy hvi mzopmizy oj ocz xjoovbz, viy ocz tjpoc, rdoc ojjgn ydaazmzio
amjh ocjnz cz cvy pnzy di ocz hjmidib, ydmzxozy cdn nozkn vxmjnn ocz
adzgyn.

"Idbco lpdxfgt ncpo di, wpo oj ht zsomzhz rjiyzm, D ajpiy ocvo ocz
xjoovbzmn cvy v hzvin ja kmjgjibdib gdbco wt ocz pnz ja ovkzmn, viy rvn
yzgdbcozy oj adiy ocvo ocz nzoodib ja ocz npi ydy ijo kpo vi ziy oj ocz
kgzvnpmz D zskzmdzixzy di rvoxcdib ht cphvi izdbcwjpmn.  Di ocz zqzidib
ocz tjpib bdmg viy czm xjhkvidji rzmz zhkgjtzy di qvmdjpn jxxpkvodjin
rcdxc D ydy ijo piyzmnoviy; viy ocz jgy hvi vbvdi ojjf pk ocz
dinomphzio rcdxc kmjypxzy ocz ydqdiz njpiyn ocvo cvy zixcviozy hz di
ocz hjmidib.  Nj njji vn cz cvy adidnczy, ocz tjpoc wzbvi, ijo oj kgvt,
wpo oj poozm njpiyn ocvo rzmz hjijojijpn, viy izdoczm mznzhwgdib ocz
cvmhjit ja ocz jgy hvi'n dinomphzio ijm ocz njibn ja ocz wdmyn; D ndixz
ajpiy ocvo cz mzvy vgjpy, wpo vo ocvo odhz D fizr ijocdib ja ocz
nxdzixz ja rjmyn jm gzoozmn.

"Ocz avhdgt, vaozm cvqdib wzzi ocpn jxxpkdzy ajm v ncjmo odhz,
zsodibpdnczy oczdm gdbcon viy mzodmzy, vn D xjiezxopmzy, oj mzno."



Xcvkozm 12

"D gvt ji ht nomvr, wpo D xjpgy ijo ngzzk.  D ocjpbco ja ocz
jxxpmmzixzn ja ocz yvt.  Rcvo xcdzagt nompxf hz rvn ocz bziogz hviizmn
ja ocznz kzjkgz, viy D gjibzy oj ejdi oczh, wpo yvmzy ijo.  D
mzhzhwzmzy ojj rzgg ocz omzvohzio D cvy npaazmzy ocz idbco wzajmz amjh
ocz wvmwvmjpn qdggvbzmn, viy mznjgqzy, rcvozqzm xjpmnz ja xjiypxo D
hdbco czmzvaozm ocdif do mdbco oj kpmnpz, ocvo ajm ocz kmznzio D rjpgy
mzhvdi lpdzogt di ht cjqzg, rvoxcdib viy ziyzvqjpmdib oj ydnxjqzm ocz
hjodqzn rcdxc diagpzixzy oczdm vxodjin.

"Ocz xjoovbzmn vmjnz ocz izso hjmidib wzajmz ocz npi.  Ocz tjpib rjhvi
vmmvibzy ocz xjoovbz viy kmzkvmzy ocz ajjy, viy ocz tjpoc yzkvmozy
vaozm ocz admno hzvg.

"Ocdn yvt rvn kvnnzy di ocz nvhz mjpodiz vn ocvo rcdxc kmzxzyzy do.
Ocz tjpib hvi rvn xjinoviogt zhkgjtzy jpo ja yjjmn, viy ocz bdmg di
qvmdjpn gvwjmdjpn jxxpkvodjin rdocdi.  Ocz jgy hvi, rcjh D njji
kzmxzdqzy oj wz wgdiy, zhkgjtzy cdn gzdnpmz cjpmn ji cdn dinomphzio jm
di xjiozhkgvodji.  Ijocdib xjpgy zsxzzy ocz gjqz viy mznkzxo rcdxc ocz
tjpibzm xjoovbzmn zscdwdozy ojrvmyn oczdm qzizmvwgz xjhkvidji.  Oczt
kzmajmhzy ojrvmyn cdh zqzmt gdoogz jaadxz ja vaazxodji viy ypot rdoc
bziogziznn, viy cz mzrvmyzy oczh wt cdn wzizqjgzio nhdgzn.

"Oczt rzmz ijo ziodmzgt cvkkt.  Ocz tjpib hvi viy cdn xjhkvidji jaozi
rzio vkvmo viy vkkzvmzy oj rzzk.  D nvr ij xvpnz ajm oczdm picvkkdiznn,
wpo D rvn yzzkgt vaazxozy wt do.  Da npxc gjqzgt xmzvopmzn rzmz
hdnzmvwgz, do rvn gznn nomvibz ocvo D, vi dhkzmazxo viy njgdovmt wzdib,
ncjpgy wz rmzoxczy.  Tzo rct rzmz ocznz bziogz wzdibn picvkkt?  Oczt
kjnnznnzy v yzgdbcoapg cjpnz (ajm npxc do rvn di ht ztzn) viy zqzmt
gpspmt; oczt cvy v admz oj rvmh oczh rczi xcdgg viy yzgdxdjpn qdviyn
rczi cpibmt; oczt rzmz ymznnzy di zsxzggzio xgjoczn; viy, nodgg hjmz,
oczt ziejtzy jiz vijoczm'n xjhkvit viy nkzzxc, diozmxcvibdib zvxc yvt
gjjfn ja vaazxodji viy fdiyiznn.  Rcvo ydy oczdm ozvmn dhkgt?  Ydy oczt
mzvggt zskmznn kvdi?  D rvn vo admno pivwgz oj njgqz ocznz lpznodjin,
wpo kzmkzopvg vooziodji viy odhz zskgvdizy oj hz hvit vkkzvmvixzn rcdxc
rzmz vo admno zidbhvodx.

"V xjindyzmvwgz kzmdjy zgvknzy wzajmz D ydnxjqzmzy jiz ja ocz xvpnzn ja
ocz pizvndiznn ja ocdn vhdvwgz avhdgt:  do rvn kjqzmot, viy oczt
npaazmzy ocvo zqdg di v qzmt ydnomznndib yzbmzz.  Oczdm ijpmdnchzio
xjindnozy ziodmzgt ja ocz qzbzovwgzn ja oczdm bvmyzi viy ocz hdgf ja
jiz xjr, rcdxc bvqz qzmt gdoogz ypmdib ocz rdiozm, rczi don hvnozmn
xjpgy nxvmxzgt kmjxpmz ajjy oj npkkjmo do.  Oczt jaozi, D wzgdzqz,
npaazmzy ocz kvibn ja cpibzm qzmt kjdbiviogt, znkzxdvggt ocz orj
tjpibzm xjoovbzmn, ajm nzqzmvg odhzn oczt kgvxzy ajjy wzajmz ocz jgy
hvi rczi oczt mznzmqzy ijiz ajm oczhnzgqzn.

"Ocdn omvdo ja fdiyiznn hjqzy hz nzindwgt.  D cvy wzzi vxxpnojhzy,
ypmdib ocz idbco, oj nozvg v kvmo ja oczdm nojmz ajm ht jri
xjinphkodji, wpo rczi D ajpiy ocvo di yjdib ocdn D diagdxozy kvdi ji
ocz xjoovbzmn, D vwnovdizy viy nvodnadzy htnzga rdoc wzmmdzn, ipon, viy
mjjon rcdxc D bvoczmzy amjh v izdbcwjpmdib rjjy.

"D ydnxjqzmzy vgnj vijoczm hzvin ocmjpbc rcdxc D rvn zivwgzy oj vnndno
oczdm gvwjpmn.  D ajpiy ocvo ocz tjpoc nkzio v bmzvo kvmo ja zvxc yvt
di xjggzxodib rjjy ajm ocz avhdgt admz, viy ypmdib ocz idbco D jaozi
ojjf cdn ojjgn, ocz pnz ja rcdxc D lpdxfgt ydnxjqzmzy, viy wmjpbco cjhz
admdib npaadxdzio ajm ocz xjinphkodji ja nzqzmvg yvtn.

"D mzhzhwzm, ocz admno odhz ocvo D ydy ocdn, ocz tjpib rjhvi, rczi ncz
jkzizy ocz yjjm di ocz hjmidib, vkkzvmzy bmzvogt vnojidnczy ji nzzdib v
bmzvo kdgz ja rjjy ji ocz jpondyz.  Ncz poozmzy njhz rjmyn di v gjpy
qjdxz, viy ocz tjpoc ejdizy czm, rcj vgnj zskmznnzy npmkmdnz.  D
jwnzmqzy, rdoc kgzvnpmz, ocvo cz ydy ijo bj oj ocz ajmzno ocvo yvt, wpo
nkzio do di mzkvdmdib ocz xjoovbz viy xpgodqvodib ocz bvmyzi.

"Wt yzbmzzn D hvyz v ydnxjqzmt ja nodgg bmzvozm hjhzio.  D ajpiy ocvo
ocznz kzjkgz kjnnznnzy v hzocjy ja xjhhpidxvodib oczdm zskzmdzixz viy
azzgdibn oj jiz vijoczm wt vmodxpgvoz njpiyn.  D kzmxzdqzy ocvo ocz
rjmyn oczt nkjfz njhzodhzn kmjypxzy kgzvnpmz jm kvdi, nhdgzn jm
nvyiznn, di ocz hdiyn viy xjpiozivixzn ja ocz czvmzmn.  Ocdn rvn diyzzy
v bjygdfz nxdzixz, viy D vmyziogt yzndmzy oj wzxjhz vxlpvdiozy rdoc do.
Wpo D rvn wvaagzy di zqzmt voozhko D hvyz ajm ocdn kpmkjnz.  Oczdm
kmjipixdvodji rvn lpdxf, viy ocz rjmyn oczt poozmzy, ijo cvqdib vit
vkkvmzio xjiizxodji rdoc qdndwgz jwezxon, D rvn pivwgz oj ydnxjqzm vit
xgpz wt rcdxc D xjpgy pimvqzg ocz htnozmt ja oczdm mzazmzixz.  Wt bmzvo
vkkgdxvodji, cjrzqzm, viy vaozm cvqdib mzhvdizy ypmdib ocz nkvxz ja
nzqzmvg mzqjgpodjin ja ocz hjji di ht cjqzg, D ydnxjqzmzy ocz ivhzn
ocvo rzmz bdqzi oj njhz ja ocz hjno avhdgdvm jwezxon ja ydnxjpmnz; D
gzvmizy viy vkkgdzy ocz rjmyn, 'admz,' 'hdgf,' 'wmzvy,' viy 'rjjy.'  D
gzvmizy vgnj ocz ivhzn ja ocz xjoovbzmn oczhnzgqzn.  Ocz tjpoc viy cdn
xjhkvidji cvy zvxc ja oczh nzqzmvg ivhzn, wpo ocz jgy hvi cvy jigt jiz,
rcdxc rvn 'avoczm.' Ocz bdmg rvn xvggzy 'ndnozm' jm 'Vbvocv,' viy ocz
tjpoc 'Azgds,' 'wmjoczm,' jm 'nji.'  D xviijo yznxmdwz ocz yzgdbco D
azgo rczi D gzvmizy ocz dyzvn vkkmjkmdvozy oj zvxc ja ocznz njpiyn viy
rvn vwgz oj kmjijpixz oczh.  D ydnodibpdnczy nzqzmvg joczm rjmyn
rdocjpo wzdib vwgz vn tzo oj piyzmnoviy jm vkkgt oczh, npxc vn 'bjjy,'
'yzvmzno,' 'picvkkt.'

"D nkzio ocz rdiozm di ocdn hviizm.  Ocz bziogz hviizmn viy wzvpot ja
ocz xjoovbzmn bmzvogt ziyzvmzy oczh oj hz; rczi oczt rzmz picvkkt, D
azgo yzkmznnzy; rczi oczt mzejdxzy, D nthkvocduzy di oczdm ejtn.  D nvr
azr cphvi wzdibn wzndyzn oczh, viy da vit joczm cvkkzizy oj ziozm ocz
xjoovbz, oczdm cvmnc hviizmn viy mpyz bvdo jigt zicvixzy oj hz ocz
npkzmdjm vxxjhkgdnchzion ja ht amdziyn.  Ocz jgy hvi, D xjpgy kzmxzdqz,
jaozi ziyzvqjpmzy oj zixjpmvbz cdn xcdgymzi, vn njhzodhzn D ajpiy ocvo
cz xvggzy oczh, oj xvno jaa oczdm hzgvixcjgt.  Cz rjpgy ovgf di v
xczzmapg vxxzio, rdoc vi zskmznndji ja bjjyiznn ocvo wznojrzy kgzvnpmz
zqzi pkji hz.  Vbvocv gdnozizy rdoc mznkzxo, czm ztzn njhzodhzn adggzy
rdoc ozvmn, rcdxc ncz ziyzvqjpmzy oj rdkz vrvt pikzmxzdqzy; wpo D
bzizmvggt ajpiy ocvo czm xjpiozivixz viy ojiz rzmz hjmz xczzmapg vaozm
cvqdib gdnozizy oj ocz zscjmovodjin ja czm avoczm.  Do rvn ijo ocpn
rdoc Azgds.  Cz rvn vgrvtn ocz nvyyzno ja ocz bmjpk, viy zqzi oj ht
pikmvxodnzy nzinzn, cz vkkzvmzy oj cvqz npaazmzy hjmz yzzkgt ocvi cdn
amdziyn.  Wpo da cdn xjpiozivixz rvn hjmz njmmjrapg, cdn qjdxz rvn hjmz
xczzmapg ocvi ocvo ja cdn ndnozm, znkzxdvggt rczi cz vyymznnzy ocz jgy
hvi.

"D xjpgy hziodji diiphzmvwgz dinovixzn rcdxc, vgocjpbc ngdbco, hvmfzy
ocz ydnkjndodjin ja ocznz vhdvwgz xjoovbzmn.  Di ocz hdyno ja kjqzmot
viy rvio, Azgds xvmmdzy rdoc kgzvnpmz oj cdn ndnozm ocz admno gdoogz
rcdoz agjrzm ocvo kzzkzy jpo amjh wzizvoc ocz nijrt bmjpiy.  Zvmgt di
ocz hjmidib, wzajmz ncz cvy mdnzi, cz xgzvmzy vrvt ocz nijr ocvo
jwnompxozy czm kvoc oj ocz hdgf-cjpnz, ymzr rvozm amjh ocz rzgg, viy
wmjpbco ocz rjjy amjh ocz jpocjpnz, rczmz, oj cdn kzmkzopvg
vnojidnchzio, cz ajpiy cdn nojmz vgrvtn mzkgzidnczy wt vi diqdndwgz
cviy.  Di ocz yvt, D wzgdzqz, cz rjmfzy njhzodhzn ajm v izdbcwjpmdib
avmhzm, wzxvpnz cz jaozi rzio ajmoc viy ydy ijo mzopmi piodg ydiizm,
tzo wmjpbco ij rjjy rdoc cdh.  Vo joczm odhzn cz rjmfzy di ocz bvmyzi,
wpo vn oczmz rvn gdoogz oj yj di ocz amjnot nzvnji, cz mzvy oj ocz jgy
hvi viy Vbvocv.

"Ocdn mzvydib cvy kpuugzy hz zsomzhzgt vo admno, wpo wt yzbmzzn D
ydnxjqzmzy ocvo cz poozmzy hvit ja ocz nvhz njpiyn rczi cz mzvy vn rczi
cz ovgfzy.  D xjiezxopmzy, oczmzajmz, ocvo cz ajpiy ji ocz kvkzm ndbin
ajm nkzzxc rcdxc cz piyzmnojjy, viy D vmyziogt gjibzy oj xjhkmzcziy
ocznz vgnj; wpo cjr rvn ocvo kjnndwgz rczi D ydy ijo zqzi piyzmnoviy
ocz njpiyn ajm rcdxc oczt nojjy vn ndbin?  D dhkmjqzy, cjrzqzm,
nzindwgt di ocdn nxdzixz, wpo ijo npaadxdziogt oj ajggjr pk vit fdiy ja
xjiqzmnvodji, vgocjpbc D vkkgdzy ht rcjgz hdiy oj ocz ziyzvqjpm, ajm D
zvndgt kzmxzdqzy ocvo, vgocjpbc D zvbzmgt gjibzy oj ydnxjqzm htnzga oj
ocz xjoovbzmn, D jpbco ijo oj hvfz ocz voozhko piodg D cvy admno wzxjhz
hvnozm ja oczdm gvibpvbz, rcdxc fijrgzybz hdbco zivwgz hz oj hvfz oczh
jqzmgjjf ocz yzajmhdot ja ht adbpmz, ajm rdoc ocdn vgnj ocz xjiomvno
kzmkzopvggt kmznziozy oj ht ztzn cvy hvyz hz vxlpvdiozy.

"D cvy vyhdmzy ocz kzmazxo ajmhn ja ht xjoovbzmn--oczdm bmvxz, wzvpot,
viy yzgdxvoz xjhkgzsdjin; wpo cjr rvn D ozmmdadzy rczi D qdzrzy htnzga
di v omvinkvmzio kjjg!  Vo admno D novmozy wvxf, pivwgz oj wzgdzqz ocvo
do rvn diyzzy D rcj rvn mzagzxozy di ocz hdmmjm; viy rczi D wzxvhz
apggt xjiqdixzy ocvo D rvn di mzvgdot ocz hjinozm ocvo D vh, D rvn
adggzy rdoc ocz wdoozmzno nzinvodjin ja yznkjiyzixz viy hjmodadxvodji.
Vgvn!  D ydy ijo tzo ziodmzgt fijr ocz avovg zaazxon ja ocdn hdnzmvwgz
yzajmhdot.

"Vn ocz npi wzxvhz rvmhzm viy ocz gdbco ja yvt gjibzm, ocz nijr
qvidnczy, viy D wzczgy ocz wvmz omzzn viy ocz wgvxf zvmoc.  Amjh ocdn
odhz Azgds rvn hjmz zhkgjtzy, viy ocz czvmo-hjqdib diydxvodjin ja
dhkziydib avhdiz ydnvkkzvmzy.  Oczdm ajjy, vn D vaozmrvmyn ajpiy, rvn
xjvmnz, wpo do rvn rcjgznjhz; viy oczt kmjxpmzy v npaadxdzixt ja do.
Nzqzmvg izr fdiyn ja kgvion nkmvib pk di ocz bvmyzi, rcdxc oczt
ymznnzy; viy ocznz ndbin ja xjhajmo dixmzvnzy yvdgt vn ocz nzvnji
vyqvixzy.

"Ocz jgy hvi, gzvidib ji cdn nji, rvgfzy zvxc yvt vo ijji, rczi do ydy
ijo mvdi, vn D ajpiy do rvn xvggzy rczi ocz czvqzin kjpmzy ajmoc don
rvozmn.  Ocdn amzlpziogt ojjf kgvxz, wpo v cdbc rdiy lpdxfgt ymdzy ocz
zvmoc, viy ocz nzvnji wzxvhz avm hjmz kgzvnvio ocvi do cvy wzzi.

"Ht hjyz ja gdaz di ht cjqzg rvn pidajmh.  Ypmdib ocz hjmidib D
vooziyzy ocz hjodjin ja ocz xjoovbzmn, viy rczi oczt rzmz ydnkzmnzy di
qvmdjpn jxxpkvodjin, D ngzko; ocz mzhvdiyzm ja ocz yvt rvn nkzio di
jwnzmqdib ht amdziyn.  Rczi oczt cvy mzodmzy oj mzno, da oczmz rvn vit
hjji jm ocz idbco rvn novm-gdbco, D rzio dioj ocz rjjyn viy xjggzxozy
ht jri ajjy viy apzg ajm ocz xjoovbz.  Rczi D mzopmizy, vn jaozi vn do
rvn izxznnvmt, D xgzvmzy oczdm kvoc amjh ocz nijr viy kzmajmhzy ocjnz
jaadxzn ocvo D cvy nzzi yjiz wt Azgds.  D vaozmrvmyn ajpiy ocvo ocznz
gvwjpmn, kzmajmhzy wt vi diqdndwgz cviy, bmzvogt vnojidnczy oczh; viy
jixz jm ordxz D czvmy oczh, ji ocznz jxxvndjin, poozm ocz rjmyn 'bjjy
nkdmdo,' 'rjiyzmapg'; wpo D ydy ijo oczi piyzmnoviy ocz ndbidadxvodji
ja ocznz ozmhn.

"Ht ocjpbcon ijr wzxvhz hjmz vxodqz, viy D gjibzy oj ydnxjqzm ocz
hjodqzn viy azzgdibn ja ocznz gjqzgt xmzvopmzn; D rvn dilpdndodqz oj
fijr rct Azgds vkkzvmzy nj hdnzmvwgz viy Vbvocv nj nvy.  D ocjpbco
(ajjgdnc rmzoxc!) ocvo do hdbco wz di ht kjrzm oj mznojmz cvkkdiznn oj
ocznz yznzmqdib kzjkgz.  Rczi D ngzko jm rvn vwnzio, ocz ajmhn ja ocz
qzizmvwgz wgdiy avoczm, ocz bziogz Vbvocv, viy ocz zsxzggzio Azgds
agdoozy wzajmz hz.  D gjjfzy pkji oczh vn npkzmdjm wzdibn rcj rjpgy wz
ocz vmwdozmn ja ht apopmz yznodit.  D ajmhzy di ht dhvbdivodji v
ocjpnviy kdxopmzn ja kmznziodib htnzga oj oczh, viy oczdm mzxzkodji ja
hz.  D dhvbdizy ocvo oczt rjpgy wz ydnbpnozy, piodg, wt ht bziogz
yzhzvijpm viy xjixdgdvodib rjmyn, D ncjpgy admno rdi oczdm avqjpm viy
vaozmrvmyn oczdm gjqz.

"Ocznz ocjpbcon zscdgvmvozy hz viy gzy hz oj vkkgt rdoc amznc vmyjpm oj
ocz vxlpdmdib ocz vmo ja gvibpvbz.  Ht jmbvin rzmz diyzzy cvmnc, wpo
npkkgz; viy vgocjpbc ht qjdxz rvn qzmt pigdfz ocz njao hpndx ja oczdm
ojizn, tzo D kmjijpixzy npxc rjmyn vn D piyzmnojjy rdoc ojgzmvwgz zvnz.
Do rvn vn ocz vnn viy ocz gvk-yjb; tzo npmzgt ocz bziogz vnn rcjnz
dioziodjin rzmz vaazxodjivoz, vgocjpbc cdn hviizmn rzmz mpyz, yznzmqzy
wzoozm omzvohzio ocvi wgjrn viy zszxmvodji.

"Ocz kgzvnvio ncjrzmn viy bzidvg rvmhoc ja nkmdib bmzvogt vgozmzy ocz
vnkzxo ja ocz zvmoc.  Hzi rcj wzajmz ocdn xcvibz nzzhzy oj cvqz wzzi
cdy di xvqzn ydnkzmnzy oczhnzgqzn viy rzmz zhkgjtzy di qvmdjpn vmon ja
xpgodqvodji.  Ocz wdmyn nvib di hjmz xczzmapg ijozn, viy ocz gzvqzn
wzbvi oj wpy ajmoc ji ocz omzzn.  Cvkkt, cvkkt zvmoc!  Ado cvwdovodji
ajm bjyn, rcdxc, nj ncjmo v odhz wzajmz, rvn wgzvf, yvhk, viy
pircjgznjhz.  Ht nkdmdon rzmz zgzqvozy wt ocz zixcviodib vkkzvmvixz ja
ivopmz; ocz kvno rvn wgjoozy amjh ht hzhjmt, ocz kmznzio rvn omvilpdg,
viy ocz apopmz bdgyzy wt wmdbco mvtn ja cjkz viy viodxdkvodjin ja ejt."



Xcvkozm 13

"D ijr cvnozi oj ocz hjmz hjqdib kvmo ja ht nojmt.  D ncvgg mzgvoz
zqzion ocvo dhkmznnzy hz rdoc azzgdibn rcdxc, amjh rcvo D cvy wzzi,
cvqz hvyz hz rcvo D vh.

"Nkmdib vyqvixzy mvkdygt; ocz rzvoczm wzxvhz adiz viy ocz nfdzn
xgjpygznn.  Do npmkmdnzy hz ocvo rcvo wzajmz rvn yznzmo viy bgjjht
ncjpgy ijr wgjjh rdoc ocz hjno wzvpodapg agjrzmn viy qzmypmz.  Ht
nzinzn rzmz bmvodadzy viy mzamznczy wt v ocjpnviy nxzion ja yzgdbco viy
v ocjpnviy ndbcon ja wzvpot.

"Do rvn ji jiz ja ocznz yvtn, rczi ht xjoovbzmn kzmdjydxvggt mznozy
amjh gvwjpm--ocz jgy hvi kgvtzy ji cdn bpdovm, viy ocz xcdgymzi
gdnozizy oj cdh--ocvo D jwnzmqzy ocz xjpiozivixz ja Azgds rvn
hzgvixcjgt wztjiy zskmznndji; cz ndbczy amzlpziogt, viy jixz cdn avoczm
kvpnzy di cdn hpndx, viy D xjiezxopmzy wt cdn hviizm ocvo cz dilpdmzy
ocz xvpnz ja cdn nji'n njmmjr.  Azgds mzkgdzy di v xczzmapg vxxzio, viy
ocz jgy hvi rvn mzxjhhzixdib cdn hpndx rczi njhzjiz ovkkzy vo ocz yjjm.

"Do rvn v gvyt ji cjmnzwvxf, vxxjhkvidzy wt v xjpiomt-hvi vn v bpdyz.
Ocz gvyt rvn ymznnzy di v yvmf npdo viy xjqzmzy rdoc v ocdxf wgvxf
qzdg.  Vbvocv vnfzy v lpznodji, oj rcdxc ocz nomvibzm jigt mzkgdzy wt
kmjijpixdib, di v nrzzo vxxzio, ocz ivhz ja Azgds.  Czm qjdxz rvn
hpndxvg wpo pigdfz ocvo ja zdoczm ja ht amdziyn.  Ji czvmdib ocdn rjmy,
Azgds xvhz pk cvnodgt oj ocz gvyt, rcj, rczi ncz nvr cdh, ocmzr pk czm
qzdg, viy D wzczgy v xjpiozivixz ja vibzgdx wzvpot viy zskmznndji.  Czm
cvdm ja v ncdidib mvqzi wgvxf, viy xpmdjpngt wmvdyzy; czm ztzn rzmz
yvmf, wpo bziogz, vgocjpbc vidhvozy; czm azvopmzn ja v mzbpgvm
kmjkjmodji, viy czm xjhkgzsdji rjiymjpngt avdm, zvxc xczzf odibzy rdoc
v gjqzgt kdif.

"Azgds nzzhzy mvqdnczy rdoc yzgdbco rczi cz nvr czm, zqzmt omvdo ja
njmmjr qvidnczy amjh cdn avxz, viy do dinoviogt zskmznnzy v yzbmzz ja
zxnovodx ejt, ja rcdxc D xjpgy cvmygt cvqz wzgdzqzy do xvkvwgz; cdn
ztzn nkvmfgzy, vn cdn xczzf agpnczy rdoc kgzvnpmz; viy vo ocvo hjhzio D
ocjpbco cdh vn wzvpodapg vn ocz nomvibzm.  Ncz vkkzvmzy vaazxozy wt
ydaazmzio azzgdibn; rdkdib v azr ozvmn amjh czm gjqzgt ztzn, ncz czgy
jpo czm cviy oj Azgds, rcj fdnnzy do mvkopmjpngt viy xvggzy czm, vn
rzgg vn D xjpgy ydnodibpdnc, cdn nrzzo Vmvwdvi.  Ncz ydy ijo vkkzvm oj
piyzmnoviy cdh, wpo nhdgzy.  Cz vnndnozy czm oj ydnhjpio, viy
ydnhdnndib czm bpdyz, xjiypxozy czm dioj ocz xjoovbz.  Njhz
xjiqzmnvodji ojjf kgvxz wzorzzi cdh viy cdn avoczm, viy ocz tjpib
nomvibzm fizgo vo ocz jgy hvi'n azzo viy rjpgy cvqz fdnnzy cdn cviy,
wpo cz mvdnzy czm viy zhwmvxzy czm vaazxodjivozgt.

"D njji kzmxzdqzy ocvo vgocjpbc ocz nomvibzm poozmzy vmodxpgvoz njpiyn
viy vkkzvmzy oj cvqz v gvibpvbz ja czm jri, ncz rvn izdoczm piyzmnojjy
wt ijm czmnzga piyzmnojjy ocz xjoovbzmn.  Oczt hvyz hvit ndbin rcdxc D
ydy ijo xjhkmzcziy, wpo D nvr ocvo czm kmznzixz ydaapnzy bgvyiznn
ocmjpbc ocz xjoovbz, ydnkzggdib oczdm njmmjr vn ocz npi ydnndkvozn ocz
hjmidib hdnon.  Azgds nzzhzy kzxpgdvmgt cvkkt viy rdoc nhdgzn ja
yzgdbco rzgxjhzy cdn Vmvwdvi.  Vbvocv, ocz zqzm-bziogz Vbvocv, fdnnzy
ocz cviyn ja ocz gjqzgt nomvibzm, viy kjdiodib oj czm wmjoczm, hvyz
ndbin rcdxc vkkzvmzy oj hz oj hzvi ocvo cz cvy wzzi njmmjrapg piodg ncz
xvhz.  Njhz cjpmn kvnnzy ocpn, rcdgz oczt, wt oczdm xjpiozivixzn,
zskmznnzy ejt, ocz xvpnz ja rcdxc D ydy ijo xjhkmzcziy.  Kmznziogt D
ajpiy, wt ocz amzlpzio mzxpmmzixz ja njhz njpiy rcdxc ocz nomvibzm
mzkzvozy vaozm oczh, ocvo ncz rvn ziyzvqjpmdib oj gzvmi oczdm gvibpvbz;
viy ocz dyzv dinoviogt jxxpmmzy oj hz ocvo D ncjpgy hvfz pnz ja ocz
nvhz dinompxodjin oj ocz nvhz ziy.  Ocz nomvibzm gzvmizy vwjpo orziot
rjmyn vo ocz admno gznnji; hjno ja oczh, diyzzy, rzmz ocjnz rcdxc D cvy
wzajmz piyzmnojjy, wpo D kmjadozy wt ocz joczmn.

"Vn idbco xvhz ji, Vbvocv viy ocz Vmvwdvi mzodmzy zvmgt.  Rczi oczt
nzkvmvozy Azgds fdnnzy ocz cviy ja ocz nomvibzm viy nvdy, 'Bjjy idbco
nrzzo Nvadz.'  Cz nvo pk hpxc gjibzm, xjiqzmndib rdoc cdn avoczm, viy
wt ocz amzlpzio mzkzododji ja czm ivhz D xjiezxopmzy ocvo oczdm gjqzgt
bpzno rvn ocz npwezxo ja oczdm xjiqzmnvodji.  D vmyziogt yzndmzy oj
piyzmnoviy oczh, viy wzio zqzmt avxpgot ojrvmyn ocvo kpmkjnz, wpo ajpiy
do poozmgt dhkjnndwgz.

"Ocz izso hjmidib Azgds rzio jpo oj cdn rjmf, viy vaozm ocz pnpvg
jxxpkvodjin ja Vbvocv rzmz adidnczy, ocz Vmvwdvi nvo vo ocz azzo ja ocz
jgy hvi, viy ovfdib cdn bpdovm, kgvtzy njhz vdmn nj ziomvixdibgt
wzvpodapg ocvo oczt vo jixz ymzr ozvmn ja njmmjr viy yzgdbco amjh ht
ztzn.  Ncz nvib, viy czm qjdxz agjrzy di v mdxc xvyzixz, nrzggdib jm
ytdib vrvt gdfz v idbcodibvgz ja ocz rjjyn.

"Rczi ncz cvy adidnczy, ncz bvqz ocz bpdovm oj Vbvocv, rcj vo admno
yzxgdizy do.  Ncz kgvtzy v ndhkgz vdm, viy czm qjdxz vxxjhkvidzy do di
nrzzo vxxzion, wpo pigdfz ocz rjiymjpn nomvdi ja ocz nomvibzm.  Ocz jgy
hvi vkkzvmzy zimvkopmzy viy nvdy njhz rjmyn rcdxc Vbvocv ziyzvqjpmzy oj
zskgvdi oj Nvadz, viy wt rcdxc cz vkkzvmzy oj rdnc oj zskmznn ocvo ncz
wznojrzy ji cdh ocz bmzvozno yzgdbco wt czm hpndx.

"Ocz yvtn ijr kvnnzy vn kzvxzvwgt vn wzajmz, rdoc ocz njgz vgozmvodji
ocvo ejt cvy ovfzi kgvxz ja nvyiznn di ocz xjpiozivixzn ja ht amdziyn.
Nvadz rvn vgrvtn bvt viy cvkkt; ncz viy D dhkmjqzy mvkdygt di ocz
fijrgzybz ja gvibpvbz, nj ocvo di orj hjiocn D wzbvi oj xjhkmzcziy hjno
ja ocz rjmyn poozmzy wt ht kmjozxojmn.

"Di ocz hzvircdgz vgnj ocz wgvxf bmjpiy rvn xjqzmzy rdoc czmwvbz, viy
ocz bmzzi wvifn diozmnkzmnzy rdoc diiphzmvwgz agjrzmn, nrzzo oj ocz
nxzio viy ocz ztzn, novmn ja kvgz mvydvixz vhjib ocz hjjigdbco rjjyn;
ocz npi wzxvhz rvmhzm, ocz idbcon xgzvm viy wvght; viy ht ijxopmivg
mvhwgzn rzmz vi zsomzhz kgzvnpmz oj hz, vgocjpbc oczt rzmz xjindyzmvwgt
ncjmozizy wt ocz gvoz nzoodib viy zvmgt mdndib ja ocz npi, ajm D izqzm
qziopmzy vwmjvy ypmdib yvtgdbco, azvmapg ja hzzodib rdoc ocz nvhz
omzvohzio D cvy ajmhzmgt ziypmzy di ocz admno qdggvbz rcdxc D ziozmzy.

"Ht yvtn rzmz nkzio di xgjnz vooziodji, ocvo D hdbco hjmz nkzzydgt
hvnozm ocz gvibpvbz; viy D hvt wjvno ocvo D dhkmjqzy hjmz mvkdygt ocvi
ocz Vmvwdvi, rcj piyzmnojjy qzmt gdoogz viy xjiqzmnzy di wmjfzi
vxxzion, rcdgno D xjhkmzcziyzy viy xjpgy dhdovoz vghjno zqzmt rjmy ocvo
rvn nkjfzi.

"Rcdgz D dhkmjqzy di nkzzxc, D vgnj gzvmizy ocz nxdzixz ja gzoozmn vn
do rvn ovpbco oj ocz nomvibzm, viy ocdn jkzizy wzajmz hz v rdyz adzgy
ajm rjiyzm viy yzgdbco.

"Ocz wjjf amjh rcdxc Azgds dinompxozy Nvadz rvn Qjgizt'n Mpdin ja
Zhkdmzn.  D ncjpgy ijo cvqz piyzmnojjy ocz kpmkjmo ja ocdn wjjf cvy ijo
Azgds, di mzvydib do, bdqzi qzmt hdipoz zskgvivodjin.  Cz cvy xcjnzi
ocdn rjmf, cz nvdy, wzxvpnz ocz yzxgvhvojmt notgz rvn amvhzy di
dhdovodji ja ocz Zvnozmi vpocjmn.  Ocmjpbc ocdn rjmf D jwovdizy v
xpmnjmt fijrgzybz ja cdnojmt viy v qdzr ja ocz nzqzmvg zhkdmzn vo
kmznzio zsdnodib di ocz rjmgy; do bvqz hz vi dindbco dioj ocz hviizmn,
bjqzmihzion, viy mzgdbdjin ja ocz ydaazmzio ivodjin ja ocz zvmoc.  D
czvmy ja ocz ngjocapg Vndvodxn, ja ocz nopkziyjpn bzidpn viy hziovg
vxodqdot ja ocz Bmzxdvin, ja ocz rvmn viy rjiyzmapg qdmopz ja ocz zvmgt
Mjhvin--ja oczdm npwnzlpzio yzbzizmvodib--ja ocz yzxgdiz ja ocvo hdbcot
zhkdmz, ja xcdqvgmt, Xcmdnodvidot, viy fdibn.  D czvmy ja ocz ydnxjqzmt
ja ocz Vhzmdxvi czhdnkczmz viy rzko rdoc Nvadz jqzm ocz cvkgznn avoz ja
don jmdbdivg dicvwdovion.

"Ocznz rjiyzmapg ivmmvodjin dinkdmzy hz rdoc nomvibz azzgdibn.  Rvn
hvi, diyzzy, vo jixz nj kjrzmapg, nj qdmopjpn viy hvbidadxzio, tzo nj
qdxdjpn viy wvnz?  Cz vkkzvmzy vo jiz odhz v hzmz nxdji ja ocz zqdg
kmdixdkgz viy vo vijoczm vn vgg ocvo xvi wz xjixzdqzy ja ijwgz viy
bjygdfz.  Oj wz v bmzvo viy qdmopjpn hvi vkkzvmzy ocz cdbczno cjijpm
ocvo xvi wzavgg v nzindodqz wzdib; oj wz wvnz viy qdxdjpn, vn hvit ji
mzxjmy cvqz wzzi, vkkzvmzy ocz gjrzno yzbmvyvodji, v xjiydodji hjmz
vwezxo ocvi ocvo ja ocz wgdiy hjgz jm cvmhgznn rjmh.  Ajm v gjib odhz D
xjpgy ijo xjixzdqz cjr jiz hvi xjpgy bj ajmoc oj hpmyzm cdn azggjr, jm
zqzi rct oczmz rzmz gvrn viy bjqzmihzion; wpo rczi D czvmy yzovdgn ja
qdxz viy wgjjynczy, ht rjiyzm xzvnzy viy D opmizy vrvt rdoc ydnbpno viy
gjvocdib.

"Zqzmt xjiqzmnvodji ja ocz xjoovbzmn ijr jkzizy izr rjiyzmn oj hz.
Rcdgz D gdnozizy oj ocz dinompxodjin rcdxc Azgds wznojrzy pkji ocz
Vmvwdvi, ocz nomvibz ntnozh ja cphvi njxdzot rvn zskgvdizy oj hz.  D
czvmy ja ocz ydqdndji ja kmjkzmot, ja dhhzinz rzvgoc viy nlpvgdy
kjqzmot, ja mvif, yznxzio, viy ijwgz wgjjy.

"Ocz rjmyn diypxzy hz oj opmi ojrvmyn htnzga.  D gzvmizy ocvo ocz
kjnnznndjin hjno znozzhzy wt tjpm azggjr xmzvopmzn rzmz cdbc viy
pinpggdzy yznxzio pidozy rdoc mdxczn.  V hvi hdbco wz mznkzxozy rdoc
jigt jiz ja ocznz vyqviovbzn, wpo rdocjpo zdoczm cz rvn xjindyzmzy,
zsxzko di qzmt mvmz dinovixzn, vn v qvbvwjiy viy v ngvqz, yjjhzy oj
rvnoz cdn kjrzmn ajm ocz kmjadon ja ocz xcjnzi azr!  Viy rcvo rvn D? Ja
ht xmzvodji viy xmzvojm D rvn vwnjgpozgt dbijmvio, wpo D fizr ocvo D
kjnnznnzy ij hjizt, ij amdziyn, ij fdiy ja kmjkzmot.  D rvn, wzndyzn,
ziypzy rdoc v adbpmz cdyzjpngt yzajmhzy viy gjvocnjhz; D rvn ijo zqzi
ja ocz nvhz ivopmz vn hvi.  D rvn hjmz vbdgz ocvi oczt viy xjpgy
npwndno pkji xjvmnzm ydzo; D wjmz ocz zsomzhzn ja czvo viy xjgy rdoc
gznn diepmt oj ht amvhz; ht novopmz avm zsxzzyzy oczdmn.  Rczi D gjjfzy
vmjpiy D nvr viy czvmy ja ijiz gdfz hz.  Rvn D, oczi, v hjinozm, v wgjo
pkji ocz zvmoc, amjh rcdxc vgg hzi agzy viy rcjh vgg hzi ydnjrizy?

"D xviijo yznxmdwz oj tjp ocz vbjit ocvo ocznz mzagzxodjin diagdxozy
pkji hz; D omdzy oj ydnkzg oczh, wpo njmmjr jigt dixmzvnzy rdoc
fijrgzybz.  Jc, ocvo D cvy ajmzqzm mzhvdizy di ht ivodqz rjjy, ijm
fijri ijm azgo wztjiy ocz nzinvodjin ja cpibzm, ocdmno, viy czvo!

"Ja rcvo v nomvibz ivopmz dn fijrgzybz!  Do xgdibn oj ocz hdiy rczi do
cvn jixz nzduzy ji do gdfz v gdxczi ji ocz mjxf.  D rdnczy njhzodhzn oj
ncvfz jaa vgg ocjpbco viy azzgdib, wpo D gzvmizy ocvo oczmz rvn wpo jiz
hzvin oj jqzmxjhz ocz nzinvodji ja kvdi, viy ocvo rvn yzvoc--v novoz
rcdxc D azvmzy tzo ydy ijo piyzmnoviy.  D vyhdmzy qdmopz viy bjjy
azzgdibn viy gjqzy ocz bziogz hviizmn viy vhdvwgz lpvgdodzn ja ht
xjoovbzmn, wpo D rvn ncpo jpo amjh diozmxjpmnz rdoc oczh, zsxzko
ocmjpbc hzvin rcdxc D jwovdizy wt nozvgoc, rczi D rvn pinzzi viy
pifijri, viy rcdxc mvoczm dixmzvnzy ocvi nvodnadzy ocz yzndmz D cvy ja
wzxjhdib jiz vhjib ht azggjrn.  Ocz bziogz rjmyn ja Vbvocv viy  ocz
vidhvozy nhdgzn ja ocz xcvmhdib Vmvwdvi rzmz ijo ajm hz.  Ocz hdgy
zscjmovodjin ja ocz jgy hvi viy ocz gdqzgt xjiqzmnvodji ja ocz gjqzy
Azgds rzmz ijo ajm hz. Hdnzmvwgz, picvkkt rmzoxc!

"Joczm gznnjin rzmz dhkmznnzy pkji hz zqzi hjmz yzzkgt.  D czvmy ja ocz
ydaazmzixz ja nzszn, viy ocz wdmoc viy bmjroc ja xcdgymzi, cjr ocz
avoczm yjozy ji ocz nhdgzn ja ocz diavio, viy ocz gdqzgt nvggdzn ja ocz
jgyzm xcdgy, cjr vgg ocz gdaz viy xvmzn ja ocz hjoczm rzmz rmvkkzy pk
di ocz kmzxdjpn xcvmbz, cjr ocz hdiy ja tjpoc zskviyzy viy bvdizy
fijrgzybz, ja wmjoczm, ndnozm, viy vgg ocz qvmdjpn mzgvodjincdkn rcdxc
wdiy jiz cphvi wzdib oj vijoczm di hpopvg wjiyn.

"Wpo rczmz rzmz ht amdziyn viy mzgvodjin?  Ij avoczm cvy rvoxczy ht
diavio yvtn, ij hjoczm cvy wgznnzy hz rdoc nhdgzn viy xvmznnzn; jm da
oczt cvy, vgg ht kvno gdaz rvn ijr v wgjo, v wgdiy qvxvixt di rcdxc D
ydnodibpdnczy ijocdib.  Amjh ht zvmgdzno mzhzhwmvixz D cvy wzzi vn D
oczi rvn di czdbco viy kmjkjmodji.  D cvy izqzm tzo nzzi v wzdib
mznzhwgdib hz jm rcj xgvdhzy vit diozmxjpmnz rdoc hz.  Rcvo rvn D?  Ocz
lpznodji vbvdi mzxpmmzy, oj wz vinrzmzy jigt rdoc bmjvin.

"D rdgg njji zskgvdi oj rcvo ocznz azzgdibn oziyzy, wpo vggjr hz ijr oj
mzopmi oj ocz xjoovbzmn, rcjnz nojmt zsxdozy di hz npxc qvmdjpn
azzgdibn ja diydbivodji, yzgdbco, viy rjiyzm, wpo rcdxc vgg ozmhdivozy
di vyydodjivg gjqz viy mzqzmzixz ajm ht kmjozxojmn (ajm nj D gjqzy, di
vi diijxzio, cvga-kvdiapg nzga-yzxzdo, oj xvgg oczh)."



Xcvkozm 14

"Njhz odhz zgvknzy wzajmz D gzvmizy ocz cdnojmt ja ht amdziyn.  Do rvn
jiz rcdxc xjpgy ijo avdg oj dhkmznn donzga yzzkgt ji ht hdiy, piajgydib
vn do ydy v iphwzm ja xdmxphnovixzn, zvxc diozmznodib viy rjiyzmapg oj
jiz nj poozmgt dizskzmdzixzy vn D rvn.

"Ocz ivhz ja ocz jgy hvi rvn Yz Gvxzt.  Cz rvn yznxziyzy amjh v bjjy
avhdgt di Amvixz, rczmz cz cvy gdqzy ajm hvit tzvmn di vaagpzixz,
mznkzxozy wt cdn npkzmdjmn viy wzgjqzy wt cdn zlpvgn.  Cdn nji rvn wmzy
di ocz nzmqdxz ja cdn xjpiomt, viy Vbvocv cvy mvifzy rdoc gvydzn ja ocz
cdbczno ydnodixodji.  V azr hjiocn wzajmz ht vmmdqvg oczt cvy gdqzy di
v gvmbz viy gpspmdjpn xdot xvggzy Kvmdn, npmmjpiyzy wt amdziyn viy
kjnnznnzy ja zqzmt ziejthzio rcdxc qdmopz, mzadizhzio ja diozggzxo, jm
ovnoz, vxxjhkvidzy wt v hjyzmvoz ajmopiz, xjpgy vaajmy.

"Ocz avoczm ja Nvadz cvy wzzi ocz xvpnz ja oczdm mpdi.  Cz rvn v
Opmfdnc hzmxcvio viy cvy dicvwdozy Kvmdn ajm hvit tzvmn, rczi, ajm njhz
mzvnji rcdxc D xjpgy ijo gzvmi, cz wzxvhz jwijsdjpn oj ocz bjqzmihzio.
Cz rvn nzduzy viy xvno dioj kmdnji ocz qzmt yvt ocvo Nvadz vmmdqzy amjh
Xjinoviodijkgz oj ejdi cdh.  Cz rvn omdzy viy xjiyzhizy oj yzvoc.  Ocz
diepnodxz ja cdn nziozixz rvn qzmt agvbmvio; vgg Kvmdn rvn diydbivio;
viy do rvn epybzy ocvo cdn mzgdbdji viy rzvgoc mvoczm ocvi ocz xmdhz
vggzbzy vbvdino cdh cvy wzzi ocz xvpnz ja cdn xjiyzhivodji.

"Azgds cvy vxxdyziovggt wzzi kmznzio vo ocz omdvg; cdn cjmmjm viy
diydbivodji rzmz pixjiomjggvwgz rczi cz czvmy ocz yzxdndji ja ocz
xjpmo.  Cz hvyz, vo ocvo hjhzio, v njgzhi qjr oj yzgdqzm cdh viy oczi
gjjfzy vmjpiy ajm ocz hzvin.  Vaozm hvit ampdogznn voozhkon oj bvdi
vyhdoovixz oj ocz kmdnji, cz ajpiy v nomjibgt bmvozy rdiyjr di vi
pibpvmyzy kvmo ja ocz wpdgydib, rcdxc gdbcozy ocz ypibzji ja ocz
piajmopivoz Hpcvhhvyvi, rcj, gjvyzy rdoc xcvdin, rvdozy di yznkvdm ocz
zszxpodji ja ocz wvmwvmjpn nziozixz.  Azgds qdndozy ocz bmvoz vo idbco
viy hvyz fijri oj ocz kmdnjizm cdn dioziodjin di cdn avqjpm.  Ocz Opmf,
vhvuzy viy yzgdbcozy, ziyzvqjpmzy oj fdiygz ocz uzvg ja cdn yzgdqzmzm
wt kmjhdnzn ja mzrvmy viy rzvgoc.  Azgds mzezxozy cdn jaazmn rdoc
xjiozhko, tzo rczi cz nvr ocz gjqzgt Nvadz, rcj rvn vggjrzy oj qdndo
czm avoczm viy rcj wt czm bznopmzn zskmznnzy czm gdqzgt bmvodopyz, ocz
tjpoc xjpgy ijo czgk jridib oj cdn jri hdiy ocvo ocz xvkodqz kjnnznnzy
v omzvnpmz rcdxc rjpgy apggt mzrvmy cdn ojdg viy cvuvmy.

"Ocz Opmf lpdxfgt kzmxzdqzy ocz dhkmznndji ocvo cdn yvpbcozm cvy hvyz
ji ocz czvmo ja Azgds viy ziyzvqjpmzy oj nzxpmz cdh hjmz ziodmzgt di
cdn diozmznon wt ocz kmjhdnz ja czm cviy di hvmmdvbz nj njji vn cz
ncjpgy wz xjiqztzy oj v kgvxz ja nvazot.  Azgds rvn ojj yzgdxvoz oj
vxxzko ocdn jaazm, tzo cz gjjfzy ajmrvmy oj ocz kmjwvwdgdot ja ocz
zqzio vn oj ocz xjinphhvodji ja cdn cvkkdiznn.

"Ypmdib ocz zinpdib yvtn, rcdgz ocz kmzkvmvodjin rzmz bjdib ajmrvmy ajm
ocz znxvkz ja ocz hzmxcvio, ocz uzvg ja Azgds rvn rvmhzy wt nzqzmvg
gzoozmn ocvo cz mzxzdqzy amjh ocdn gjqzgt bdmg, rcj ajpiy hzvin oj
zskmznn czm ocjpbcon di ocz gvibpvbz ja czm gjqzm wt ocz vdy ja vi jgy
hvi, v nzmqvio ja czm avoczm rcj piyzmnojjy Amzixc.  Ncz ocvifzy cdh di
ocz hjno vmyzio ozmhn ajm cdn dioziyzy nzmqdxzn ojrvmyn czm kvmzio, viy
vo ocz nvhz odhz ncz bziogt yzkgjmzy czm jri avoz.

"D cvqz xjkdzn ja ocznz gzoozmn, ajm D ajpiy hzvin, ypmdib ht mzndyzixz
di ocz cjqzg, oj kmjxpmz ocz dhkgzhzion ja rmdodib; viy ocz gzoozmn
rzmz jaozi di ocz cviyn ja Azgds jm Vbvocv.  Wzajmz D yzkvmo D rdgg
bdqz oczh oj tjp; oczt rdgg kmjqz ocz ompoc ja ht ovgz; wpo vo kmznzio,
vn ocz npi dn vgmzvyt avm yzxgdizy, D ncvgg jigt cvqz odhz oj mzkzvo
ocz npwnovixz ja oczh oj tjp.

"Nvadz mzgvozy ocvo czm hjoczm rvn v Xcmdnodvi Vmvw, nzduzy viy hvyz v
ngvqz wt ocz Opmfn; mzxjhhziyzy wt czm wzvpot, ncz cvy rji ocz czvmo ja
ocz avoczm ja Nvadz, rcj hvmmdzy czm.  Ocz tjpib bdmg nkjfz di cdbc viy
ziocpndvnodx ozmhn ja czm hjoczm, rcj, wjmi di amzzyjh, nkpmizy ocz
wjiyvbz oj rcdxc ncz rvn ijr mzypxzy.  Ncz dinompxozy czm yvpbcozm di
ocz ozizon ja czm mzgdbdji viy ovpbco czm oj vnkdmz oj cdbczm kjrzmn ja
diozggzxo viy vi diyzkziyzixz ja nkdmdo ajmwdyyzi oj ocz azhvgz
ajggjrzmn ja Hpcvhhvy.  Ocdn gvyt ydzy, wpo czm gznnjin rzmz diyzgdwgt
dhkmznnzy ji ocz hdiy ja Nvadz, rcj ndxfzizy vo ocz kmjnkzxo ja vbvdi
mzopmidib oj Vndv viy wzdib dhhpmzy rdocdi ocz rvggn ja v cvmzh,
vggjrzy jigt oj jxxpkt czmnzga rdoc diaviodgz vhpnzhzion, dgg-npdozy oj
ocz ozhkzm ja czm njpg, ijr vxxpnojhzy oj bmviy dyzvn viy v ijwgz
zhpgvodji ajm qdmopz.  Ocz kmjnkzxo ja hvmmtdib v Xcmdnodvi viy
mzhvdidib di v xjpiomt rczmz rjhzi rzmz vggjrzy oj ovfz v mvif di
njxdzot rvn zixcviodib oj czm.

"Ocz yvt ajm ocz zszxpodji ja ocz Opmf rvn adszy, wpo ji ocz idbco
kmzqdjpn oj do cz lpdoozy cdn kmdnji viy wzajmz hjmidib rvn ydnovio
hvit gzvbpzn amjh Kvmdn.  Azgds cvy kmjxpmzy kvnnkjmon di ocz ivhz ja
cdn avoczm, ndnozm, viy cdhnzga.  Cz cvy kmzqdjpngt xjhhpidxvozy cdn
kgvi oj ocz ajmhzm, rcj vdyzy ocz yzxzdo wt lpdoodib cdn cjpnz, piyzm
ocz kmzozixz ja v ejpmizt viy xjixzvgzy cdhnzga, rdoc cdn yvpbcozm, di
vi jwnxpmz kvmo ja Kvmdn.

"Azgds xjiypxozy ocz apbdodqzn ocmjpbc Amvixz oj Gtjin viy vxmjnn Hjio
Xzidn oj Gzbcjmi, rczmz ocz hzmxcvio cvy yzxdyzy oj rvdo v avqjpmvwgz
jkkjmopidot ja kvnndib dioj njhz kvmo ja ocz Opmfdnc yjhdidjin.

"Nvadz mznjgqzy oj mzhvdi rdoc czm avoczm piodg ocz hjhzio ja cdn
yzkvmopmz, wzajmz rcdxc odhz ocz Opmf mzizrzy cdn kmjhdnz ocvo ncz
ncjpgy wz pidozy oj cdn yzgdqzmzm; viy Azgds mzhvdizy rdoc oczh di
zskzxovodji ja ocvo zqzio; viy di ocz hzviodhz cz ziejtzy ocz njxdzot
ja ocz Vmvwdvi, rcj zscdwdozy ojrvmyn cdh ocz ndhkgzno viy oziyzmzno
vaazxodji.  Oczt xjiqzmnzy rdoc jiz vijoczm ocmjpbc ocz hzvin ja vi
diozmkmzozm, viy njhzodhzn rdoc ocz diozmkmzovodji ja gjjfn; viy Nvadz
nvib oj cdh ocz ydqdiz vdmn ja czm ivodqz xjpiomt.

"Ocz Opmf vggjrzy ocdn diodhvxt oj ovfz kgvxz viy zixjpmvbzy ocz cjkzn
ja ocz tjpocapg gjqzmn, rcdgz di cdn czvmo cz cvy ajmhzy avm joczm
kgvin.  Cz gjvoczy ocz dyzv ocvo cdn yvpbcozm ncjpgy wz pidozy oj v
Xcmdnodvi, wpo cz azvmzy ocz mznziohzio ja Azgds da cz ncjpgy vkkzvm
gpfzrvmh, ajm cz fizr ocvo cz rvn nodgg di ocz kjrzm ja cdn yzgdqzmzm
da cz ncjpgy xcjjnz oj wzomvt cdh oj ocz Dovgdvi novoz rcdxc oczt
dicvwdozy.  Cz mzqjgqzy v ocjpnviy kgvin wt rcdxc cz ncjpgy wz zivwgzy
oj kmjgjib ocz yzxzdo piodg do hdbco wz ij gjibzm izxznnvmt, viy
nzxmzogt oj ovfz cdn yvpbcozm rdoc cdh rczi cz yzkvmozy.  Cdn kgvin
rzmz avxdgdovozy wt ocz izrn rcdxc vmmdqzy amjh Kvmdn.

"Ocz bjqzmihzio ja Amvixz rzmz bmzvogt zimvbzy vo ocz znxvkz ja oczdm
qdxodh viy nkvmzy ij kvdin oj yzozxo viy kpidnc cdn yzgdqzmzm.  Ocz
kgjo ja Azgds rvn lpdxfgt ydnxjqzmzy, viy Yz Gvxzt viy Vbvocv rzmz
ocmjri dioj kmdnji.  Ocz izrn mzvxczy Azgds viy mjpnzy cdh amjh cdn
ymzvh ja kgzvnpmz.  Cdn wgdiy viy vbzy avoczm viy cdn bziogz ndnozm gvt
di v ijdnjhz ypibzji rcdgz cz ziejtzy ocz amzz vdm viy ocz njxdzot ja
czm rcjh cz gjqzy.  Ocdn dyzv rvn ojmopmz oj cdh.  Cz lpdxfgt vmmvibzy
rdoc ocz Opmf ocvo da ocz gvoozm ncjpgy adiy v avqjpmvwgz jkkjmopidot
ajm znxvkz wzajmz Azgds xjpgy mzopmi oj Dovgt, Nvadz ncjpgy mzhvdi vn v
wjvmyzm vo v xjiqzio vo Gzbcjmi; viy oczi, lpdoodib ocz gjqzgt Vmvwdvi,
cz cvnozizy oj Kvmdn viy yzgdqzmzy cdhnzga pk oj ocz qzibzvixz ja ocz
gvr, cjkdib oj amzz Yz Gvxzt viy Vbvocv wt ocdn kmjxzzydib.

"Cz ydy ijo npxxzzy.  Oczt mzhvdizy xjiadizy ajm adqz hjiocn wzajmz ocz
omdvg ojjf kgvxz, ocz mznpgo ja rcdxc yzkmdqzy oczh ja oczdm ajmopiz
viy xjiyzhizy oczh oj v kzmkzopvg zsdgz amjh oczdm ivodqz xjpiomt.

"Oczt ajpiy v hdnzmvwgz vntgph di ocz xjoovbz di Bzmhvit, rczmz D
ydnxjqzmzy oczh.  Azgds njji gzvmizy ocvo ocz omzvxczmjpn Opmf, ajm
rcjh cz viy cdn avhdgt ziypmzy npxc piczvmy-ja jkkmznndji, ji
ydnxjqzmdib ocvo cdn yzgdqzmzm rvn ocpn mzypxzy oj kjqzmot viy mpdi,
wzxvhz v omvdojm oj bjjy azzgdib viy cjijpm viy cvy lpdoozy Dovgt rdoc
cdn yvpbcozm, dinpgodibgt nziydib Azgds v kdoovixz ja hjizt oj vdy cdh,
vn cz nvdy, di njhz kgvi ja apopmz hvdiozivixz.

"Npxc rzmz ocz zqzion ocvo kmztzy ji ocz czvmo ja Azgds viy mziyzmzy
cdh, rczi D admno nvr cdh, ocz hjno hdnzmvwgz ja cdn avhdgt.  Cz xjpgy
cvqz ziypmzy kjqzmot, viy rcdgz ocdn ydnomznn cvy wzzi ocz hzzy ja cdn
qdmopz, cz bgjmdzy di do; wpo ocz dibmvodopyz ja ocz Opmf viy ocz gjnn
ja cdn wzgjqzy Nvadz rzmz hdnajmopizn hjmz wdoozm viy dmmzkvmvwgz.  Ocz
vmmdqvg ja ocz Vmvwdvi ijr diapnzy izr gdaz dioj cdn njpg.

"Rczi ocz izrn mzvxczy Gzbcjmi ocvo Azgds rvn yzkmdqzy ja cdn rzvgoc
viy mvif, ocz hzmxcvio xjhhviyzy cdn yvpbcozm oj ocdif ij hjmz ja czm
gjqzm, wpo oj kmzkvmz oj mzopmi oj czm ivodqz xjpiomt.  Ocz bzizmjpn
ivopmz ja Nvadz rvn jpomvbzy wt ocdn xjhhviy; ncz voozhkozy oj
zskjnopgvoz rdoc czm avoczm, wpo cz gzao czm vibmdgt, mzdozmvodib cdn
otmviidxvg hviyvoz.

"V azr yvtn vaozm, ocz Opmf ziozmzy cdn yvpbcozm'n vkvmohzio viy ojgy
czm cvnodgt ocvo cz cvy mzvnji oj wzgdzqz ocvo cdn mzndyzixz vo Gzbcjmi
cvy wzzi ydqpgbzy viy ocvo cz ncjpgy nkzzydgt wz yzgdqzmzy pk oj ocz
Amzixc bjqzmihzio; cz cvy xjinzlpziogt cdmzy v qznnzg oj xjiqzt cdh oj
Xjinoviodijkgz, ajm rcdxc xdot cz ncjpgy nvdg di v azr cjpmn.  Cz
dioziyzy oj gzvqz cdn yvpbcozm piyzm ocz xvmz ja v xjiadyziodvg
nzmqvio, oj ajggjr vo czm gzdnpmz rdoc ocz bmzvozm kvmo ja cdn
kmjkzmot, rcdxc cvy ijo tzo vmmdqzy vo Gzbcjmi.

"Rczi vgjiz, Nvadz mznjgqzy di czm jri hdiy ocz kgvi ja xjiypxo ocvo do
rjpgy wzxjhz czm oj kpmnpz di ocdn zhzmbzixt.  V mzndyzixz di Opmfzt
rvn vwcjmmzio oj czm; czm mzgdbdji viy czm azzgdibn rzmz vgdfz vqzmnz
oj do.  Wt njhz kvkzmn ja czm avoczm rcdxc azgg dioj czm cviyn ncz
czvmy ja ocz zsdgz ja czm gjqzm viy gzvmio ocz ivhz ja ocz nkjo rczmz
cz oczi mzndyzy.  Ncz czndovozy njhz odhz, wpo vo gziboc ncz ajmhzy czm
yzozmhdivodji.  Ovfdib rdoc czm njhz ezrzgn ocvo wzgjibzy oj czm viy v
nph ja hjizt, ncz lpdoozy Dovgt rdoc vi vooziyvio, v ivodqz ja Gzbcjmi,
wpo rcj piyzmnojjy ocz xjhhji gvibpvbz ja Opmfzt, viy yzkvmozy ajm
Bzmhvit.

"Ncz vmmdqzy di nvazot vo v ojri vwjpo orziot gzvbpzn amjh ocz xjoovbz
ja Yz Gvxzt, rczi czm vooziyvio azgg yvibzmjpngt dgg.  Nvadz ipmnzy czm
rdoc ocz hjno yzqjozy vaazxodji, wpo ocz kjjm bdmg ydzy, viy ocz
Vmvwdvi rvn gzao vgjiz, pivxlpvdiozy rdoc ocz gvibpvbz ja ocz xjpiomt
viy poozmgt dbijmvio ja ocz xpnojhn ja ocz rjmgy.  Ncz azgg, cjrzqzm,
dioj bjjy cviyn.  Ocz Dovgdvi cvy hziodjizy ocz ivhz ja ocz nkjo ajm
rcdxc oczt rzmz wjpiy, viy vaozm czm yzvoc ocz rjhvi ja ocz cjpnz di
rcdxc oczt cvy gdqzy ojjf xvmz ocvo Nvadz ncjpgy vmmdqz di nvazot vo
ocz xjoovbz ja czm gjqzm."



Xcvkozm 15

"Npxc rvn ocz cdnojmt ja ht wzgjqzy xjoovbzmn.  Do dhkmznnzy hz yzzkgt.
D gzvmizy, amjh ocz qdzrn ja njxdvg gdaz rcdxc do yzqzgjkzy, oj vyhdmz
oczdm qdmopzn viy oj yzkmzxvoz ocz qdxzn ja hvifdiy.

"Vn tzo D gjjfzy pkji xmdhz vn v ydnovio zqdg, wzizqjgzixz viy
bzizmjndot rzmz zqzm kmznzio wzajmz hz, dixdodib rdocdi hz v yzndmz oj
wzxjhz vi vxojm di ocz wpnt nxziz rczmz nj hvit vyhdmvwgz lpvgdodzn
rzmz xvggzy ajmoc viy ydnkgvtzy.  Wpo di bdqdib vi vxxjpio ja ocz
kmjbmznn ja ht diozggzxo, D hpno ijo jhdo v xdmxphnovixz rcdxc jxxpmmzy
di ocz wzbdiidib ja ocz hjioc ja Vpbpno ja ocz nvhz tzvm.

"Jiz idbco ypmdib ht vxxpnojhzy qdndo oj ocz izdbcwjpmdib rjjy rczmz D
xjggzxozy ht jri ajjy viy wmjpbco cjhz admdib ajm ht kmjozxojmn, D
ajpiy ji ocz bmjpiy v gzvoczmi kjmohviozvp xjiovdidib nzqzmvg vmodxgzn
ja ymznn viy njhz wjjfn.  D zvbzmgt nzduzy ocz kmduz viy mzopmizy rdoc
do oj ht cjqzg.  Ajmopivozgt ocz wjjfn rzmz rmdoozi di ocz gvibpvbz,
ocz zgzhzion ja rcdxc D cvy vxlpdmzy vo ocz xjoovbz; oczt xjindnozy ja
Kvmvydnz Gjno, v qjgphz ja Kgpovmxc'n Gdqzn, viy ocz Njmmjrn ja Rzmozm.
Ocz kjnnznndji ja ocznz omzvnpmzn bvqz hz zsomzhz yzgdbco; D ijr
xjiodipvggt nopydzy viy zszmxdnzy ht hdiy pkji ocznz cdnojmdzn, rcdgno
ht amdziyn rzmz zhkgjtzy di oczdm jmydivmt jxxpkvodjin.

"D xvi cvmygt yznxmdwz oj tjp ocz zaazxo ja ocznz wjjfn.  Oczt kmjypxzy
di hz vi diadidot ja izr dhvbzn viy azzgdibn, ocvo njhzodhzn mvdnzy hz
oj zxnovnt, wpo hjmz amzlpziogt npif hz dioj ocz gjrzno yzezxodji.  Di
ocz Njmmjrn ja Rzmozm, wzndyzn ocz diozmzno ja don ndhkgz viy vaazxodib
nojmt, nj hvit jkdidjin vmz xviqvnnzy viy nj hvit gdbcon ocmjri pkji
rcvo cvy cdoczmoj wzzi oj hz jwnxpmz npwezxon ocvo D ajpiy di do v
izqzm-ziydib njpmxz ja nkzxpgvodji viy vnojidnchzio.  Ocz bziogz viy
yjhznodx hviizmn do yznxmdwzy, xjhwdizy rdoc gjaot nziodhzion viy
azzgdibn, rcdxc cvy ajm oczdm jwezxo njhzocdib jpo ja nzga, vxxjmyzy
rzgg rdoc ht zskzmdzixz vhjib ht kmjozxojmn viy rdoc ocz rvion rcdxc
rzmz ajmzqzm vgdqz di ht jri wjnjh.  Wpo D ocjpbco Rzmozm cdhnzga v
hjmz ydqdiz wzdib ocvi D cvy zqzm wzczgy jm dhvbdizy; cdn xcvmvxozm
xjiovdizy ij kmzozindji, wpo do nvif yzzk.  Ocz ydnlpdndodjin pkji
yzvoc viy npdxdyz rzmz xvgxpgvozy oj adgg  hz rdoc rjiyzm.  D ydy ijo
kmzoziy oj ziozm dioj ocz hzmdon ja ocz xvnz, tzo D dixgdizy ojrvmyn
ocz jkdidjin ja ocz czmj, rcjnz zsodixodji D rzko, rdocjpo kmzxdnzgt
piyzmnoviydib do.

"Vn D mzvy, cjrzqzm, D vkkgdzy hpxc kzmnjivggt oj ht jri azzgdibn viy
xjiydodji.  D ajpiy htnzga ndhdgvm tzo vo ocz nvhz odhz nomvibzgt
pigdfz oj ocz wzdibn xjixzmidib rcjh D mzvy viy oj rcjnz xjiqzmnvodji D
rvn v gdnozizm.  D nthkvocduzy rdoc viy kvmogt piyzmnojjy oczh, wpo D
rvn piajmhzy di hdiy; D rvn yzkziyzio ji ijiz viy mzgvozy oj ijiz.
'Ocz kvoc ja ht yzkvmopmz rvn amzz,' viy oczmz rvn ijiz oj gvhzio ht
viidcdgvodji.  Ht kzmnji rvn cdyzjpn viy ht novopmz bdbviodx.  Rcvo ydy
ocdn hzvi?  Rcj rvn D?  Rcvo rvn D?  Rczixz ydy D xjhz?  Rcvo rvn ht
yznodivodji?  Ocznz lpznodjin xjiodipvggt mzxpmmzy, wpo D rvn pivwgz oj
njgqz oczh.

"Ocz qjgphz ja Kgpovmxc'n Gdqzn rcdxc D kjnnznnzy xjiovdizy ocz
cdnojmdzn ja ocz admno ajpiyzmn ja ocz vixdzio mzkpwgdxn.  Ocdn wjjf
cvy v avm ydaazmzio zaazxo pkji hz amjh ocz Njmmjrn ja Rzmozm.  D
gzvmizy amjh Rzmozm'n dhvbdivodjin yznkjiyzixt viy bgjjh, wpo Kgpovmxc
ovpbco hz cdbc ocjpbcon; cz zgzqvozy hz vwjqz ocz rmzoxczy nkczmz ja ht
jri mzagzxodjin, oj vyhdmz viy gjqz ocz czmjzn ja kvno vbzn.  Hvit
ocdibn D mzvy npmkvnnzy ht piyzmnoviydib viy zskzmdzixz.  D cvy v qzmt
xjiapnzy fijrgzybz ja fdibyjhn, rdyz zsozion ja xjpiomt, hdbcot mdqzmn,
viy wjpiygznn nzvn.  Wpo D rvn kzmazxogt pivxlpvdiozy rdoc ojrin viy
gvmbz vnnzhwgvbzn ja hzi. Ocz xjoovbz ja ht kmjozxojmn cvy wzzi ocz
jigt nxcjjg di rcdxc D cvy nopydzy cphvi ivopmz, wpo ocdn wjjf
yzqzgjkzy izr viy hdbcodzm nxzizn ja vxodji.  D mzvy ja hzi xjixzmizy
di kpwgdx vaavdmn, bjqzmidib jm hvnnvxmdib oczdm nkzxdzn.  D azgo ocz
bmzvozno vmyjpm ajm qdmopz mdnz rdocdi hz, viy vwcjmmzixz ajm qdxz, vn
avm vn D piyzmnojjy ocz ndbidadxvodji ja ocjnz ozmhn, mzgvodqz vn oczt
rzmz, vn D vkkgdzy oczh, oj kgzvnpmz viy kvdi vgjiz.  Diypxzy wt ocznz
azzgdibn, D rvn ja xjpmnz gzy oj vyhdmz kzvxzvwgz gvrbdqzmn, Iphv,
Njgji, viy Gtxpmbpn, di kmzazmzixz oj Mjhpgpn viy Ocznzpn.  Ocz
kvomdvmxcvg gdqzn ja ht kmjozxojmn xvpnzy ocznz dhkmznndjin oj ovfz v
admh cjgy ji ht hdiy; kzmcvkn, da ht admno diomjypxodji oj cphvidot cvy
wzzi hvyz wt v tjpib njgydzm, wpmidib ajm bgjmt viy ngvpbcozm, D ncjpgy
cvqz wzzi dhwpzy rdoc ydaazmzio nzinvodjin.

"Wpo Kvmvydnz Gjno zsxdozy ydaazmzio viy avm yzzkzm zhjodjin.  D mzvy
do, vn D cvy mzvy ocz joczm qjgphzn rcdxc cvy avggzi dioj ht cviyn, vn
v ompz cdnojmt.  Do hjqzy zqzmt azzgdib ja rjiyzm viy vrz ocvo ocz
kdxopmz ja vi jhidkjozio Bjy rvmmdib rdoc cdn xmzvopmzn rvn xvkvwgz ja
zsxdodib.  D jaozi mzazmmzy ocz nzqzmvg ndopvodjin, vn oczdm ndhdgvmdot
nompxf hz, oj ht jri.  Gdfz Vyvh, D rvn vkkvmziogt pidozy wt ij gdif oj
vit joczm wzdib di zsdnozixz; wpo cdn novoz rvn avm ydaazmzio amjh hdiz
di zqzmt joczm mznkzxo.  Cz cvy xjhz ajmoc amjh ocz cviyn ja Bjy v
kzmazxo xmzvopmz, cvkkt viy kmjnkzmjpn, bpvmyzy wt ocz znkzxdvg xvmz ja
cdn Xmzvojm; cz rvn vggjrzy oj xjiqzmnz rdoc viy vxlpdmz fijrgzybz amjh
wzdibn ja v npkzmdjm ivopmz, wpo D rvn rmzoxczy, czgkgznn, viy vgjiz.
Hvit odhzn D xjindyzmzy Nvovi vn ocz adoozm zhwgzh ja ht xjiydodji, ajm
jaozi, gdfz cdh, rczi D qdzrzy ocz wgdnn ja ht kmjozxojmn, ocz wdoozm
bvgg ja ziqt mjnz rdocdi hz.

"Vijoczm xdmxphnovixz nomziboczizy viy xjiadmhzy ocznz azzgdibn.  Njji
vaozm ht vmmdqvg di ocz cjqzg D ydnxjqzmzy njhz kvkzmn di ocz kjxfzo ja
ocz ymznn rcdxc D cvy ovfzi amjh tjpm gvwjmvojmt.  Vo admno D cvy
izbgzxozy oczh, wpo ijr ocvo D rvn vwgz oj yzxdkczm ocz xcvmvxozmn di
rcdxc oczt rzmz rmdoozi, D wzbvi oj nopyt oczh rdoc ydgdbzixz.  Do rvn
tjpm ejpmivg ja ocz ajpm hjiocn ocvo kmzxzyzy ht xmzvodji.  Tjp
hdipozgt yznxmdwzy di ocznz kvkzmn zqzmt nozk tjp ojjf di ocz kmjbmznn
ja tjpm rjmf; ocdn cdnojmt rvn hdibgzy rdoc vxxjpion ja yjhznodx
jxxpmmzixzn.  Tjp yjpwogznn mzxjggzxo ocznz kvkzmn.  Czmz oczt vmz.
Zqzmtocdib dn mzgvozy di oczh rcdxc wzvmn mzazmzixz oj ht vxxpmnzy
jmdbdi; ocz rcjgz yzovdg ja ocvo nzmdzn ja ydnbpnodib xdmxphnovixzn
rcdxc kmjypxzy do dn nzo di qdzr; ocz hdipozno yznxmdkodji ja ht jydjpn
viy gjvocnjhz kzmnji dn bdqzi, di gvibpvbz rcdxc kvdiozy tjpm jri
cjmmjmn viy mziyzmzy hdiz diyzgdwgz.  D ndxfzizy vn D mzvy.  'Cvozapg
yvt rczi D mzxzdqzy gdaz!' D zsxgvdhzy di vbjit.  'Vxxpmnzy xmzvojm!
Rct ydy tjp ajmh v hjinozm nj cdyzjpn ocvo zqzi TJP opmizy amjh hz di
ydnbpno?  Bjy, di kdot, hvyz hvi wzvpodapg viy vggpmdib, vaozm cdn jri
dhvbz; wpo ht ajmh dn v adgoct otkz ja tjpmn, hjmz cjmmdy zqzi amjh ocz
qzmt mznzhwgvixz.  Nvovi cvy cdn xjhkvidjin, azggjr yzqdgn, oj vyhdmz
viy zixjpmvbz cdh, wpo D vh njgdovmt viy vwcjmmzy.'

"Ocznz rzmz ocz mzagzxodjin ja ht cjpmn ja yznkjiyzixt viy njgdopyz;
wpo rczi D xjiozhkgvozy ocz qdmopzn ja ocz xjoovbzmn, oczdm vhdvwgz viy
wzizqjgzio ydnkjndodjin, D kzmnpvyzy htnzga ocvo rczi oczt ncjpgy
wzxjhz vxlpvdiozy rdoc ht vyhdmvodji ja oczdm qdmopzn oczt  rjpgy
xjhkvnndjivoz hz viy jqzmgjjf ht kzmnjivg yzajmhdot.  Xjpgy oczt opmi
amjh oczdm yjjm jiz, cjrzqzm hjinomjpn, rcj njgdxdozy oczdm xjhkvnndji
viy amdziyncdk?  D mznjgqzy, vo gzvno, ijo oj yznkvdm, wpo di zqzmt rvt
oj ado htnzga ajm vi diozmqdzr rdoc oczh rcdxc rjpgy yzxdyz ht avoz.  D
kjnokjizy ocdn voozhko ajm njhz hjiocn gjibzm, ajm ocz dhkjmovixz
voovxczy oj don npxxznn dinkdmzy hz rdoc v ymzvy gzno D ncjpgy avdg.
Wzndyzn, D ajpiy ocvo ht piyzmnoviydib dhkmjqzy nj hpxc rdoc zqzmt
yvt'n zskzmdzixz ocvo D rvn pirdggdib oj xjhhzixz ocdn piyzmovfdib
piodg v azr hjmz hjiocn ncjpgy cvqz vyyzy oj ht nvbvxdot.

"Nzqzmvg xcvibzn, di ocz hzviodhz, ojjf kgvxz di ocz xjoovbz.  Ocz
kmznzixz ja Nvadz ydaapnzy cvkkdiznn vhjib don dicvwdovion, viy D vgnj
ajpiy ocvo v bmzvozm yzbmzz ja kgziot mzdbizy oczmz.  Azgds viy Vbvocv
nkzio hjmz odhz di vhpnzhzio viy xjiqzmnvodji, viy rzmz vnndnozy di
oczdm gvwjpmn wt nzmqvion.  Oczt ydy ijo vkkzvm mdxc, wpo oczt rzmz
xjioziozy viy cvkkt; oczdm azzgdibn rzmz nzmziz viy kzvxzapg, rcdgz
hdiz wzxvhz zqzmt yvt hjmz ophpgopjpn.  Dixmzvnz ja fijrgzybz jigt
ydnxjqzmzy oj hz hjmz xgzvmgt rcvo v rmzoxczy jpoxvno D rvn.  D
xczmdnczy cjkz, do dn ompz, wpo do qvidnczy rczi D wzczgy ht kzmnji
mzagzxozy di rvozm jm ht ncvyjr di ocz hjjincdiz, zqzi vn ocvo amvdg
dhvbz viy ocvo dixjinovio ncvyz.

"D ziyzvqjpmzy oj xmpnc ocznz azvmn viy oj ajmodat htnzga ajm ocz omdvg
rcdxc di v azr hjiocn D mznjgqzy oj piyzmbj; viy njhzodhzn D vggjrzy ht
ocjpbcon, pixczxfzy wt mzvnji, oj mvhwgz di ocz adzgyn ja Kvmvydnz, viy
yvmzy oj avixt vhdvwgz viy gjqzgt xmzvopmzn nthkvocdudib rdoc ht
azzgdibn viy xczzmdib ht bgjjh; oczdm vibzgdx xjpiozivixzn wmzvoczy
nhdgzn ja xjinjgvodji.  Wpo do rvn vgg v ymzvh; ij Zqz njjoczy ht
njmmjrn ijm ncvmzy ht ocjpbcon; D rvn vgjiz.  D mzhzhwzmzy Vyvh'n
npkkgdxvodji oj cdn Xmzvojm.  Wpo rczmz rvn hdiz?  Cz cvy vwviyjizy hz,
viy di ocz wdoozmiznn ja ht czvmo D xpmnzy cdh.

"Vpophi kvnnzy ocpn.  D nvr, rdoc npmkmdnz viy bmdza, ocz gzvqzn yzxvt
viy avgg, viy ivopmz vbvdi vnnphz ocz wvmmzi viy wgzvf vkkzvmvixz do
cvy rjmi rczi D admno wzczgy ocz rjjyn viy ocz gjqzgt hjji.  Tzo D ydy
ijo czzy ocz wgzvfiznn ja ocz rzvoczm; D rvn wzoozm adoozy wt ht
xjiajmhvodji ajm ocz ziypmvixz ja xjgy ocvi czvo.  Wpo ht xcdza
yzgdbcon rzmz ocz ndbco ja ocz agjrzmn, ocz wdmyn, viy vgg ocz bvt
vkkvmzg ja nphhzm; rczi ocjnz yznzmozy hz, D opmizy rdoc hjmz vooziodji
ojrvmyn ocz xjoovbzmn.  Oczdm cvkkdiznn rvn ijo yzxmzvnzy wt ocz
vwnzixz ja nphhzm.  Oczt gjqzy viy nthkvocduzy rdoc jiz vijoczm; viy
oczdm ejtn, yzkziydib ji zvxc joczm, rzmz ijo diozmmpkozy wt ocz
xvnpvgodzn ocvo ojjf kgvxz vmjpiy oczh.  Ocz hjmz D nvr ja oczh, ocz
bmzvozm wzxvhz ht yzndmz oj xgvdh oczdm kmjozxodji viy fdiyiznn; ht
czvmo tzvmizy oj wz fijri viy gjqzy wt ocznz vhdvwgz xmzvopmzn; oj nzz
oczdm nrzzo gjjfn ydmzxozy ojrvmyn hz rdoc vaazxodji rvn ocz pohjno
gdhdo ja ht vhwdodji.  D yvmzy ijo ocdif ocvo oczt rjpgy opmi oczh amjh
hz rdoc ydnyvdi viy cjmmjm.  Ocz kjjm ocvo nojkkzy vo oczdm yjjm rzmz
izqzm ymdqzi vrvt.  D vnfzy, do dn ompz, ajm bmzvozm omzvnpmzn ocvi v
gdoogz ajjy jm mzno:  D mzlpdmzy fdiyiznn viy nthkvoct; wpo D ydy ijo
wzgdzqz htnzga poozmgt pirjmoct ja do.

"Ocz rdiozm vyqvixzy, viy vi ziodmz mzqjgpodji ja ocz nzvnjin cvy ovfzi
kgvxz ndixz D vrjfz dioj gdaz.  Ht vooziodji vo ocdn odhz rvn njgzgt
ydmzxozy ojrvmyn ht kgvi ja diomjypxdib htnzga dioj ocz xjoovbz ja ht
kmjozxojmn.  D mzqjgqzy hvit kmjezxon, wpo ocvo ji rcdxc D adivggt
adszy rvn oj ziozm ocz yrzggdib rczi ocz wgdiy jgy hvi ncjpgy wz vgjiz.
D cvy nvbvxdot zijpbc oj ydnxjqzm ocvo ocz piivopmvg cdyzjpniznn ja ht
kzmnji rvn ocz xcdza jwezxo ja cjmmjm rdoc ocjnz rcj cvy ajmhzmgt
wzczgy hz.  Ht qjdxz, vgocjpbc cvmnc, cvy ijocdib ozmmdwgz di do; D
ocjpbco, oczmzajmz, ocvo da di ocz vwnzixz ja cdn xcdgymzi D xjpgy bvdi
ocz bjjy rdgg viy hzydvodji ja ocz jgy Yz Gvxzt, D hdbco wt cdn hzvin
wz ojgzmvozy wt ht tjpibzm kmjozxojmn.

"Jiz yvt, rczi ocz npi ncjiz ji ocz mzy gzvqzn ocvo nomzrzy ocz bmjpiy
viy ydaapnzy xczzmapgiznn, vgocjpbc do yzidzy rvmhoc, Nvadz, Vbvocv,
viy Azgds yzkvmozy ji v gjib xjpiomt rvgf, viy ocz jgy hvi, vo cdn jri
yzndmz, rvn gzao vgjiz di ocz xjoovbz.  Rczi cdn xcdgymzi cvy yzkvmozy,
cz ojjf pk cdn bpdovm viy kgvtzy nzqzmvg hjpmiapg wpo nrzzo vdmn, hjmz
nrzzo viy hjpmiapg ocvi D cvy zqzm czvmy cdh kgvt wzajmz.  Vo admno cdn
xjpiozivixz rvn dggphdivozy rdoc kgzvnpmz, wpo vn cz xjiodipzy,
ocjpbcoapgiznn viy nvyiznn npxxzzyzy; vo gziboc, gvtdib vndyz ocz
dinomphzio, cz nvo vwnjmwzy di mzagzxodji.

"Ht czvmo wzvo lpdxf; ocdn rvn ocz cjpm viy hjhzio ja omdvg, rcdxc
rjpgy yzxdyz ht cjkzn jm mzvgduz ht azvmn.  Ocz nzmqvion rzmz bjiz oj v
izdbcwjpmdib avdm.  Vgg rvn ndgzio di viy vmjpiy ocz xjoovbz; do rvn vi
zsxzggzio jkkjmopidot; tzo, rczi D kmjxzzyzy oj zszxpoz ht kgvi, ht
gdhwn avdgzy hz viy D nvif oj ocz bmjpiy.  Vbvdi D mjnz, viy zszmodib
vgg ocz admhiznn ja rcdxc D rvn hvnozm, mzhjqzy ocz kgvifn rcdxc D cvy
kgvxzy wzajmz ht cjqzg oj xjixzvg ht mzomzvo.  Ocz amznc vdm mzqdqzy
hz, viy rdoc mzizrzy yzozmhdivodji D vkkmjvxczy ocz yjjm ja oczdm
xjoovbz.

"D fijxfzy.  'Rcj dn oczmz?' nvdy ocz jgy hvi.  'Xjhz di.'

"D ziozmzy.  'Kvmyji ocdn diompndji,' nvdy D; 'D vh v omvqzggzm di rvio
ja v gdoogz mzno; tjp rjpgy bmzvogt jwgdbz hz da tjp rjpgy vggjr hz oj
mzhvdi v azr hdipozn wzajmz ocz admz.'

"'Ziozm,' nvdy Yz Gvxzt, 'viy D rdgg omt di rcvo hviizm D xvi oj
mzgdzqz tjpm rvion; wpo, piajmopivozgt, ht xcdgymzi vmz amjh cjhz, viy
vn D vh wgdiy, D vh vamvdy D ncvgg adiy do ydaadxpgo oj kmjxpmz ajjy
ajm tjp.'

"'Yj ijo omjpwgz tjpmnzga, ht fdiy cjno; D cvqz ajjy; do dn rvmhoc viy
mzno jigt ocvo D izzy.'

"D nvo yjri, viy v ndgzixz zinpzy.  D fizr ocvo zqzmt hdipoz rvn
kmzxdjpn oj hz, tzo D mzhvdizy dmmznjgpoz di rcvo hviizm oj xjhhzixz
ocz diozmqdzr, rczi ocz jgy hvi vyymznnzy hz.  'Wt tjpm gvibpvbz,
nomvibzm, D npkkjnz tjp vmz ht xjpiomthvi; vmz tjp Amzixc?'

"'Ij; wpo D rvn zypxvozy wt v Amzixc avhdgt viy piyzmnoviy ocvo
gvibpvbz jigt.  D vh ijr bjdib oj xgvdh ocz kmjozxodji ja njhz amdziyn,
rcjh D ndixzmzgt gjqz, viy ja rcjnz avqjpm D cvqz njhz cjkzn.'

"'Vmz oczt Bzmhvin?'

"'Ij, oczt vmz Amzixc.  Wpo gzo pn xcvibz ocz npwezxo.  D vh vi
piajmopivoz viy yznzmozy xmzvopmz, D gjjf vmjpiy viy D cvqz ij mzgvodji
jm amdziy pkji zvmoc.  Ocznz vhdvwgz kzjkgz oj rcjh D bj cvqz izqzm
nzzi hz viy fijr gdoogz ja hz.  D vh apgg ja azvmn, ajm da D avdg
oczmz, D vh vi jpoxvno di ocz rjmgy ajmzqzm.'

"'Yj ijo yznkvdm.  Oj wz amdziygznn dn diyzzy oj wz piajmopivoz, wpo
ocz czvmon ja hzi, rczi pikmzepydxzy wt vit jwqdjpn nzga-diozmzno, vmz
apgg ja wmjoczmgt gjqz viy xcvmdot.  Mzgt, oczmzajmz, ji tjpm cjkzn;
viy da ocznz amdziyn vmz bjjy viy vhdvwgz, yj ijo yznkvdm.'

"'Oczt vmz fdiy--oczt vmz ocz hjno zsxzggzio xmzvopmzn di ocz rjmgy;
wpo, piajmopivozgt, oczt vmz kmzepydxzy vbvdino hz.  D cvqz bjjy
ydnkjndodjin; ht gdaz cvn wzzi cdoczmoj cvmhgznn viy di njhz yzbmzz
wzizadxdvg; wpo v avovg kmzepydxz xgjpyn oczdm ztzn, viy rczmz oczt
jpbco oj nzz v azzgdib viy fdiy amdziy, oczt wzcjgy jigt v yzoznovwgz
hjinozm.'

"'Ocvo dn diyzzy piajmopivoz; wpo da tjp vmz mzvggt wgvhzgznn, xviijo
tjp piyzxzdqz oczh?'

"'D vh vwjpo oj piyzmovfz ocvo ovnf; viy do dn ji ocvo vxxjpio ocvo D
azzg nj hvit jqzmrczghdib ozmmjmn.  D oziyzmgt gjqz ocznz amdziyn; D
cvqz, pifijri oj oczh, wzzi ajm hvit hjiocn di ocz cvwdon ja yvdgt
fdiyiznn ojrvmyn oczh; wpo oczt wzgdzqz ocvo D rdnc oj diepmz oczh, viy
do dn ocvo kmzepydxz rcdxc D rdnc oj jqzmxjhz.'

"'Rczmz yj ocznz amdziyn mzndyz?'

"'Izvm ocdn nkjo.'

"Ocz jgy hvi kvpnzy viy oczi xjiodipzy, 'Da tjp rdgg pimznzmqzygt
xjiadyz oj hz ocz kvmodxpgvmn ja tjpm ovgz, D kzmcvkn hvt wz ja pnz di
piyzxzdqdib oczh.  D vh wgdiy viy xviijo epybz ja tjpm xjpiozivixz, wpo
oczmz dn njhzocdib di tjpm rjmyn rcdxc kzmnpvyzn hz ocvo tjp vmz
ndixzmz.  D vh kjjm viy vi zsdgz, wpo do rdgg vaajmy hz ompz kgzvnpmz
oj wz di vit rvt nzmqdxzvwgz oj v cphvi xmzvopmz.'

"'Zsxzggzio hvi!  D ocvif tjp viy vxxzko tjpm bzizmjpn jaazm.  Tjp
mvdnz hz amjh ocz ypno wt ocdn fdiyiznn; viy D ompno ocvo, wt tjpm vdy,
D ncvgg ijo wz ymdqzi amjh ocz njxdzot viy nthkvoct ja tjpm azggjr
xmzvopmzn.'

"'Czvqzi ajmwdy!  Zqzi da tjp rzmz mzvggt xmdhdivg, ajm ocvo xvi jigt
ymdqz tjp oj yznkzmvodji, viy ijo dinodbvoz tjp oj qdmopz.  D vgnj vh
piajmopivoz; D viy ht avhdgt cvqz wzzi xjiyzhizy, vgocjpbc diijxzio;
epybz, oczmzajmz, da D yj ijo azzg ajm tjpm hdnajmopizn.'

"'Cjr xvi D ocvif tjp, ht wzno viy jigt wzizavxojm?  Amjh tjpm gdkn
admno cvqz D czvmy ocz qjdxz ja fdiyiznn ydmzxozy ojrvmyn hz; D ncvgg
wz ajmzqzm bmvozapg; viy tjpm kmznzio cphvidot vnnpmzn hz ja npxxznn
rdoc ocjnz amdziyn rcjh D vh ji ocz kjdio ja hzzodib.'

"'Hvt D fijr ocz ivhzn viy mzndyzixz ja ocjnz amdziyn?'

"D kvpnzy. Ocdn, D ocjpbco, rvn ocz hjhzio ja yzxdndji, rcdxc rvn oj
mjw hz ja jm wznojr cvkkdiznn ji hz ajmzqzm.  D nompbbgzy qvdigt ajm
admhiznn npaadxdzio oj vinrzm cdh, wpo ocz zaajmo yznomjtzy vgg ht
mzhvdidib nomziboc; D nvif ji ocz xcvdm viy njwwzy vgjpy.  Vo ocvo
hjhzio D czvmy ocz nozkn ja ht tjpibzm kmjozxojmn.  D cvy ijo v hjhzio
oj gjnz, wpo nzdudib ocz cviy ja ocz jgy hvi, D xmdzy, 'Ijr dn ocz
odhz!  Nvqz viy kmjozxo hz!  Tjp viy tjpm avhdgt vmz ocz amdziyn rcjh D
nzzf.  Yj ijo tjp yznzmo hz di ocz cjpm ja omdvg!'

"'Bmzvo Bjy!' zsxgvdhzy ocz jgy hvi.  'Rcj vmz tjp?'

"Vo ocvo dinovio ocz xjoovbz yjjm rvn jkzizy, viy Azgds, Nvadz, viy
Vbvocv ziozmzy.  Rcj xvi yznxmdwz oczdm cjmmjm viy xjinozmivodji ji
wzcjgydib hz?  Vbvocv avdiozy, viy Nvadz, pivwgz oj vooziy oj czm
amdziy, mpnczy jpo ja ocz xjoovbz.  Azgds yvmozy ajmrvmy, viy rdoc
npkzmivopmvg ajmxz ojmz hz amjh cdn avoczm, oj rcjnz fizzn D xgpib, di
v omvinkjmo ja apmt, cz yvnczy hz oj ocz bmjpiy viy nompxf hz qdjgziogt
rdoc v nodxf.  D xjpgy cvqz ojmi cdh gdhw amjh gdhw, vn ocz gdji mziyn
ocz viozgjkz.  Wpo ht czvmo nvif rdocdi hz vn rdoc wdoozm ndxfiznn, viy
D mzamvdizy.  D nvr cdh ji ocz kjdio ja mzkzvodib cdn wgjr, rczi,
jqzmxjhz wt kvdi viy vibpdnc, D lpdoozy ocz xjoovbz, viy di ocz bzizmvg
ophpgo znxvkzy pikzmxzdqzy oj ht cjqzg."



Xcvkozm 16

"Xpmnzy, xpmnzy xmzvojm!  Rct ydy D gdqz?  Rct, di ocvo dinovio, ydy D
ijo zsodibpdnc ocz nkvmf ja zsdnozixz rcdxc tjp cvy nj rviojigt
wznojrzy?  D fijr ijo; yznkvdm cvy ijo tzo ovfzi kjnnznndji ja hz; ht
azzgdibn rzmz ocjnz ja mvbz viy mzqzibz.  D xjpgy rdoc kgzvnpmz cvqz
yznomjtzy ocz xjoovbz viy don dicvwdovion viy cvqz bgpoozy htnzga rdoc
oczdm ncmdzfn viy hdnzmt.

"Rczi idbco xvhz D lpdoozy ht mzomzvo viy rviyzmzy di ocz rjjy; viy
ijr, ij gjibzm mznomvdizy wt ocz azvm ja ydnxjqzmt, D bvqz qzio oj ht
vibpdnc di azvmapg cjrgdibn.  D rvn gdfz v rdgy wzvno ocvo cvy wmjfzi
ocz ojdgn, yznomjtdib ocz jwezxon ocvo jwnompxozy hz viy mvibdib
ocmjpbc ocz rjjy rdoc v novb-gdfz nrdaoiznn.  Jc!  Rcvo v hdnzmvwgz
idbco D kvnnzy!  Ocz xjgy novmn ncjiz di hjxfzmt, viy ocz wvmz omzzn
rvqzy oczdm wmvixczn vwjqz hz; ijr viy oczi ocz nrzzo qjdxz ja v wdmy
wpmno ajmoc vhdyno ocz pidqzmnvg nodggiznn.  Vgg, nvqz D, rzmz vo mzno
jm di ziejthzio; D, gdfz ocz vmxc-adziy, wjmz v czgg rdocdi hz, viy
adiydib htnzga pinthkvocduzy rdoc, rdnczy oj ozvm pk ocz omzzn, nkmzvy
cvqjx viy yznompxodji vmjpiy hz, viy oczi oj cvqz nvo yjri viy ziejtzy
ocz mpdi.

"Wpo ocdn rvn v gpspmt ja nzinvodji ocvo xjpgy ijo ziypmz; D wzxvhz
avodbpzy rdoc zsxznn ja wjydgt zszmodji viy nvif ji ocz yvhk bmvnn di
ocz ndxf dhkjozixz ja yznkvdm.  Oczmz rvn ijiz vhjib ocz htmdvyn ja hzi
ocvo zsdnozy rcj rjpgy kdot jm vnndno hz; viy ncjpgy D azzg fdiyiznn
ojrvmyn ht zizhdzn?  Ij; amjh ocvo hjhzio D yzxgvmzy zqzmgvnodib rvm
vbvdino ocz nkzxdzn, viy hjmz ocvi vgg, vbvdino cdh rcj cvy ajmhzy hz
viy nzio hz ajmoc oj ocdn dinpkkjmovwgz hdnzmt.

"Ocz npi mjnz; D czvmy ocz qjdxzn ja hzi viy fizr ocvo do rvn
dhkjnndwgz oj mzopmi oj ht mzomzvo ypmdib ocvo yvt.  Vxxjmydibgt D cdy
htnzga di njhz ocdxf piyzmrjjy, yzozmhdidib oj yzqjoz ocz zinpdib cjpmn
oj mzagzxodji ji ht ndopvodji.

"Ocz kgzvnvio npincdiz viy ocz kpmz vdm ja yvt mznojmzy hz oj njhz
yzbmzz ja omvilpdggdot; viy rczi D xjindyzmzy rcvo cvy kvnnzy vo ocz
xjoovbz, D xjpgy ijo czgk wzgdzqdib ocvo D cvy wzzi ojj cvnot di ht
xjixgpndjin.  D cvy xzmovdigt vxozy dhkmpyziogt.  Do rvn vkkvmzio ocvo
ht xjiqzmnvodji cvy diozmznozy ocz avoczm di ht wzcvga, viy  D rvn v
ajjg di cvqdib zskjnzy ht kzmnji oj ocz cjmmjm ja cdn xcdgymzi.  D
jpbco oj cvqz avhdgdvmduzy ocz jgy Yz Gvxzt oj hz, viy wt yzbmzzn oj
cvqz ydnxjqzmzy htnzga oj ocz mzno ja cdn avhdgt, rczi oczt ncjpgy cvqz
wzzi  kmzkvmzy ajm ht vkkmjvxc.  Wpo D ydy ijo wzgdzqz ht zmmjmn oj wz
dmmzomdzqvwgz, viy vaozm hpxc xjindyzmvodji D mznjgqzy oj mzopmi oj ocz
xjoovbz, nzzf ocz jgy hvi, viy wt ht mzkmznziovodjin rdi cdh oj ht
kvmot.

"Ocznz ocjpbcon xvghzy hz, viy di ocz vaozmijji D nvif dioj v kmjajpiy
ngzzk; wpo ocz azqzm ja ht wgjjy ydy ijo vggjr hz oj wz qdndozy wt
kzvxzapg ymzvhn.  Ocz cjmmdwgz nxziz ja ocz kmzxzydib yvt rvn ajmzqzm
vxodib wzajmz ht ztzn; ocz azhvgzn rzmz agtdib viy ocz zimvbzy Azgds
ozvmdib hz amjh cdn avoczm'n azzo.  D vrjfz zscvpnozy, viy adiydib ocvo
do rvn vgmzvyt idbco, D xmzko ajmoc amjh ht cdydib-kgvxz, viy rzio di
nzvmxc ja ajjy.

"Rczi ht cpibzm rvn vkkzvnzy, D ydmzxozy ht nozkn ojrvmyn ocz
rzgg-fijri kvoc ocvo xjiypxozy oj ocz xjoovbz.  Vgg oczmz rvn vo kzvxz.
D xmzko dioj ht cjqzg viy mzhvdizy di ndgzio zskzxovodji ja ocz
vxxpnojhzy cjpm rczi ocz avhdgt vmjnz.  Ocvo cjpm kvnnzy, ocz npi
hjpiozy cdbc di ocz czvqzin, wpo ocz xjoovbzmn ydy ijo vkkzvm.  D
omzhwgzy qdjgziogt, vkkmzcziydib njhz ymzvyapg hdnajmopiz.  Ocz dindyz
ja ocz xjoovbz rvn yvmf, viy D czvmy ij hjodji; D xviijo yznxmdwz ocz
vbjit ja ocdn npnkzinz.

"Kmznziogt orj xjpiomthzi kvnnzy wt, wpo kvpndib izvm ocz xjoovbz, oczt
ziozmzy dioj xjiqzmnvodji, pndib qdjgzio bznodxpgvodjin; wpo D ydy ijo
piyzmnoviy rcvo oczt nvdy, vn oczt nkjfz ocz gvibpvbz ja ocz xjpiomt,
rcdxc ydaazmzy amjh ocvo ja ht kmjozxojmn.  Njji vaozm, cjrzqzm, Azgds
vkkmjvxczy rdoc vijoczm hvi; D rvn npmkmdnzy, vn D fizr ocvo cz cvy ijo
lpdoozy ocz xjoovbz ocvo hjmidib, viy rvdozy visdjpngt oj ydnxjqzm amjh
cdn ydnxjpmnz ocz hzvidib ja ocznz pipnpvg vkkzvmvixzn.

"'Yj tjp xjindyzm,' nvdy cdn xjhkvidji oj cdh, 'ocvo tjp rdgg wz
jwgdbzy oj kvt ocmzz hjiocn' mzio viy oj gjnz ocz kmjypxz ja tjpm
bvmyzi?  D yj ijo rdnc oj ovfz vit piavdm vyqviovbz, viy D wzb
oczmzajmz ocvo tjp rdgg ovfz njhz yvtn oj xjindyzm ja tjpm
yzozmhdivodji.'

"'Do dn poozmgt pnzgznn,' mzkgdzy Azgds; 'rz xvi izqzm vbvdi dicvwdo
tjpm xjoovbz.  Ocz gdaz ja ht avoczm dn di ocz bmzvozno yvibzm, jrdib
oj ocz ymzvyapg xdmxphnovixz ocvo D cvqz mzgvozy.  Ht rdaz viy ht
ndnozm rdgg izqzm mzxjqzm amjh oczdm cjmmjm.  D ziomzvo tjp ijo oj
mzvnji rdoc hz vit hjmz.  Ovfz kjnnznndji ja tjpm ozizhzio viy gzo hz
agt amjh ocdn kgvxz.'

"Azgds omzhwgzy qdjgziogt vn cz nvdy ocdn.  Cz viy cdn xjhkvidji
ziozmzy ocz xjoovbz, di rcdxc oczt mzhvdizy ajm v azr hdipozn, viy oczi
yzkvmozy.  D izqzm nvr vit ja ocz avhdgt ja Yz Gvxzt hjmz.

"D xjiodipzy ajm ocz mzhvdiyzm ja ocz yvt di ht cjqzg di v novoz ja
poozm viy nopkdy yznkvdm.  Ht kmjozxojmn cvy yzkvmozy viy cvy wmjfzi
ocz jigt gdif ocvo czgy hz oj ocz rjmgy.  Ajm ocz admno odhz ocz
azzgdibn ja mzqzibz viy cvomzy adggzy ht wjnjh, viy D ydy ijo nomdqz oj
xjiomjg oczh, wpo vggjrdib htnzga oj wz wjmiz vrvt wt ocz nomzvh, D
wzio ht hdiy ojrvmyn diepmt viy yzvoc.  Rczi D ocjpbco ja ht amdziyn,
ja ocz hdgy qjdxz ja Yz Gvxzt, ocz bziogz ztzn ja Vbvocv, viy ocz
zslpdndoz wzvpot ja ocz Vmvwdvi, ocznz ocjpbcon qvidnczy viy v bpnc ja
ozvmn njhzrcvo njjoczy hz.  Wpo vbvdi rczi D mzagzxozy ocvo oczt cvy
nkpmizy viy yznzmozy hz, vibzm mzopmizy, v mvbz ja vibzm, viy pivwgz oj
diepmz vitocdib cphvi, D opmizy ht apmt ojrvmyn dividhvoz jwezxon.  Vn
idbco vyqvixzy D kgvxzy v qvmdzot ja xjhwpnodwgzn vmjpiy ocz xjoovbz,
viy vaozm cvqdib yznomjtzy zqzmt qznodbz ja xpgodqvodji di ocz bvmyzi,
D rvdozy rdoc ajmxzy dhkvodzixz piodg ocz hjji cvy npif oj xjhhzixz ht
jkzmvodjin.

"Vn ocz idbco vyqvixzy, v adzmxz rdiy vmjnz amjh ocz rjjyn viy lpdxfgt
ydnkzmnzy ocz xgjpyn ocvo cvy gjdozmzy di ocz czvqzin; ocz wgvno ojmz
vgjib gdfz v hdbcot vqvgvixcz viy kmjypxzy v fdiy ja dinvidot di ht
nkdmdon ocvo wpmno vgg wjpiyn ja mzvnji viy mzagzxodji.  D gdbcozy ocz
ymt wmvixc ja v omzz viy yvixzy rdoc apmt vmjpiy ocz yzqjozy xjoovbz,
ht ztzn nodgg adszy ji ocz rznozmi cjmduji, ocz zybz ja rcdxc ocz hjji
izvmgt ojpxczy.  V kvmo ja don jmw rvn vo gziboc cdy, viy D rvqzy ht
wmviy; do nvif, viy rdoc v gjpy nxmzvh D admzy ocz nomvr, viy czvoc,
viy wpnczn, rcdxc D cvy xjggzxozy.  Ocz rdiy aviizy ocz admz, viy ocz
xjoovbz rvn lpdxfgt ziqzgjkzy wt ocz agvhzn, rcdxc xgpib oj do viy
gdxfzy do rdoc oczdm ajmfzy viy yznomjtdib ojibpzn.

"Vn njji vn D rvn xjiqdixzy ocvo ij vnndnovixz xjpgy nvqz vit kvmo ja
ocz cvwdovodji, D lpdoozy ocz nxziz viy njpbco ajm mzapbz di ocz rjjyn.

"Viy ijr, rdoc ocz rjmgy wzajmz hz, rcdoczm ncjpgy D wziy ht nozkn?  D
mznjgqzy oj agt avm amjh ocz nxziz ja ht hdnajmopizn; wpo oj hz, cvozy
viy yznkdnzy, zqzmt xjpiomt hpno wz zlpvggt cjmmdwgz.  Vo gziboc ocz
ocjpbco ja tjp xmjnnzy ht hdiy.  D gzvmizy amjh tjpm kvkzmn ocvo tjp
rzmz ht avoczm, ht xmzvojm; viy oj rcjh xjpgy D vkkgt rdoc hjmz adoiznn
ocvi oj cdh rcj cvy bdqzi hz gdaz?  Vhjib ocz gznnjin ocvo Azgds cvy
wznojrzy pkji Nvadz, bzjbmvkct cvy ijo wzzi jhdoozy; D cvy gzvmizy amjh
ocznz ocz mzgvodqz ndopvodjin ja ocz ydaazmzio xjpiomdzn ja ocz zvmoc.
Tjp cvy hziodjizy Bzizqv vn ocz ivhz ja tjpm ivodqz ojri, viy ojrvmyn
ocdn kgvxz D mznjgqzy oj kmjxzzy.

"Wpo cjr rvn D oj ydmzxo htnzga?  D fizr ocvo D hpno omvqzg di v
njpocrznozmgt ydmzxodji oj mzvxc ht yznodivodji, wpo ocz npi rvn ht
jigt bpdyz.  D ydy ijo fijr ocz ivhzn ja ocz ojrin ocvo D rvn oj kvnn
ocmjpbc, ijm xjpgy D vnf diajmhvodji amjh v ndibgz cphvi wzdib; wpo D
ydy ijo yznkvdm.  Amjh tjp jigt xjpgy D cjkz ajm npxxjpm, vgocjpbc
ojrvmyn tjp D azgo ij nziodhzio wpo ocvo ja cvomzy.  Piazzgdib,
czvmogznn xmzvojm!  Tjp cvy ziyjrzy hz rdoc kzmxzkodjin viy kvnndjin
viy oczi xvno hz vwmjvy vi jwezxo ajm ocz nxjmi viy cjmmjm ja hvifdiy.
Wpo ji tjp jigt cvy D vit xgvdh ajm kdot viy mzymznn, viy amjh tjp D
yzozmhdizy oj nzzf ocvo epnodxz rcdxc D qvdigt voozhkozy oj bvdi amjh
vit joczm wzdib ocvo rjmz ocz cphvi ajmh.

"Ht omvqzgn rzmz gjib viy ocz npaazmdibn D ziypmzy diozinz.  Do rvn
gvoz di vpophi rczi D lpdoozy ocz ydnomdxo rczmz D cvy nj gjib mzndyzy.
D omvqzggzy jigt vo idbco, azvmapg ja zixjpiozmdib ocz qdnvbz ja v
cphvi wzdib.  Ivopmz yzxvtzy vmjpiy hz, viy ocz npi wzxvhz czvogznn;
mvdi viy nijr kjpmzy vmjpiy hz; hdbcot mdqzmn rzmz amjuzi; ocz npmavxz
ja ocz zvmoc rvn cvmy viy xcdgg, viy wvmz, viy D ajpiy ij nczgozm.  Jc,
zvmoc!  Cjr jaozi ydy D dhkmzxvoz xpmnzn ji ocz xvpnz ja ht wzdib!  Ocz
hdgyiznn ja ht ivopmz cvy agzy, viy vgg rdocdi hz rvn opmizy oj bvgg
viy wdoozmiznn.  Ocz izvmzm D vkkmjvxczy oj tjpm cvwdovodji, ocz hjmz
yzzkgt ydy D azzg ocz nkdmdo ja mzqzibz zifdiygzy di ht czvmo.  Nijr
azgg, viy ocz rvozmn rzmz cvmyzizy, wpo D mznozy ijo.  V azr dixdyzion
ijr viy oczi ydmzxozy hz, viy D kjnnznnzy v hvk ja ocz xjpiomt; wpo D
jaozi rviyzmzy rdyz amjh ht kvoc.  Ocz vbjit ja ht azzgdibn vggjrzy hz
ij mznkdoz; ij dixdyzio jxxpmmzy amjh rcdxc ht mvbz viy hdnzmt xjpgy
ijo zsomvxo don ajjy; wpo v xdmxphnovixz ocvo cvkkzizy rczi D vmmdqzy
ji ocz xjiadizn ja Nrdouzmgviy, rczi ocz npi cvy mzxjqzmzy don rvmhoc
viy ocz zvmoc vbvdi wzbvi oj gjjf bmzzi, xjiadmhzy di vi znkzxdvg
hviizm ocz wdoozmiznn viy cjmmjm ja ht azzgdibn.

"D bzizmvggt mznozy ypmdib ocz yvt viy omvqzggzy jigt rczi D rvn
nzxpmzy wt idbco amjh ocz qdzr ja hvi.  Jiz hjmidib, cjrzqzm, adiydib
ocvo ht kvoc gvt ocmjpbc v yzzk rjjy, D qziopmzy oj xjiodipz ht ejpmizt
vaozm ocz npi cvy mdnzi; ocz yvt, rcdxc rvn jiz ja ocz admno ja nkmdib,
xczzmzy zqzi hz wt ocz gjqzgdiznn ja don npincdiz viy ocz wvghdiznn ja
ocz vdm.  D azgo zhjodjin ja bziogziznn viy kgzvnpmz, ocvo cvy gjib
vkkzvmzy yzvy, mzqdqz rdocdi hz.  Cvga npmkmdnzy wt ocz ijqzgot ja
ocznz nzinvodjin, D vggjrzy htnzga oj wz wjmiz vrvt wt oczh, viy
ajmbzoodib ht njgdopyz viy yzajmhdot, yvmzy oj wz cvkkt.  Njao ozvmn
vbvdi wzyzrzy ht xczzfn, viy D zqzi mvdnzy ht cphdy ztzn rdoc
ocvifapgiznn ojrvmyn ocz wgznnzy npi, rcdxc wznojrzy npxc ejt pkji hz.

"D xjiodipzy oj rdiy vhjib ocz kvocn ja ocz rjjy, piodg D xvhz oj don
wjpiyvmt, rcdxc rvn nfdmozy wt v yzzk viy mvkdy mdqzm, dioj rcdxc hvit
ja ocz omzzn wzio oczdm wmvixczn, ijr wpyydib rdoc ocz amznc nkmdib.
Czmz D kvpnzy, ijo zsvxogt fijrdib rcvo kvoc oj kpmnpz, rczi D czvmy
ocz njpiy ja qjdxzn, ocvo diypxzy hz oj xjixzvg htnzga piyzm ocz ncvyz
ja v xtkmznn.  D rvn nxvmxzgt cdy rczi v tjpib bdmg xvhz mpiidib
ojrvmyn ocz nkjo rczmz D rvn xjixzvgzy, gvpbcdib, vn da ncz mvi amjh
njhzjiz di nkjmo.  Ncz xjiodipzy czm xjpmnz vgjib ocz kmzxdkdojpn ndyzn
ja ocz mdqzm, rczi npyyzigt czm ajjo ngdkkzy, viy ncz azgg dioj ocz
mvkdy nomzvh.  D mpnczy amjh ht cdydib-kgvxz viy rdoc zsomzhz gvwjpm,
amjh ocz ajmxz ja ocz xpmmzio, nvqzy czm viy ymvbbzy czm oj ncjmz.  Ncz
rvn nzinzgznn, viy D ziyzvqjpmzy wt zqzmt hzvin di ht kjrzm oj mznojmz
vidhvodji, rczi D rvn npyyzigt diozmmpkozy wt ocz vkkmjvxc ja v mpnodx,
rcj rvn kmjwvwgt ocz kzmnji amjh rcjh ncz cvy kgvtapggt agzy.  Ji
nzzdib hz, cz yvmozy ojrvmyn hz, viy ozvmdib ocz bdmg amjh ht vmhn,
cvnozizy ojrvmyn ocz yzzkzm kvmon ja ocz rjjy.  D ajggjrzy nkzzydgt, D
cvmygt fizr rct; wpo rczi ocz hvi nvr hz ymvr izvm, cz vdhzy v bpi,
rcdxc cz xvmmdzy, vo ht wjyt viy admzy.  D nvif oj ocz bmjpiy, viy ht
diepmzm, rdoc dixmzvnzy nrdaoiznn, znxvkzy dioj ocz rjjy.

"Ocdn rvn oczi ocz mzrvmy ja ht wzizqjgzixz!  D cvy nvqzy v cphvi wzdib
amjh yznompxodji, viy vn v mzxjhkzinz D ijr rmdoczy piyzm ocz hdnzmvwgz
kvdi ja v rjpiy rcdxc ncvoozmzy ocz agznc viy wjiz.  Ocz azzgdibn ja
fdiyiznn viy bziogziznn rcdxc D cvy ziozmovdizy wpo v azr hjhzion
wzajmz bvqz kgvxz oj czggdnc mvbz viy bivncdib ja ozzoc.  Diagvhzy wt
kvdi, D qjrzy zozmivg cvomzy viy qzibzvixz oj vgg hvifdiy.  Wpo ocz
vbjit ja ht rjpiy jqzmxvhz hz; ht kpgnzn kvpnzy, viy D avdiozy.

"Ajm njhz rzzfn D gzy v hdnzmvwgz gdaz di ocz rjjyn, ziyzvqjpmdib oj
xpmz ocz rjpiy rcdxc D cvy mzxzdqzy.  Ocz wvgg cvy ziozmzy ht ncjpgyzm,
viy D fizr ijo rczoczm do cvy mzhvdizy oczmz jm kvnnzy ocmjpbc; vo vit
mvoz D cvy ij hzvin ja zsomvxodib do.  Ht npaazmdibn rzmz vpbhziozy
vgnj wt ocz jkkmznndqz nzinz ja ocz diepnodxz viy dibmvodopyz ja oczdm
diagdxodji.  Ht yvdgt qjrn mjnz ajm mzqzibz--v yzzk viy yzvygt mzqzibz,
npxc vn rjpgy vgjiz xjhkzinvoz ajm ocz jpomvbzn viy vibpdnc D cvy
ziypmzy.

"Vaozm njhz rzzfn ht rjpiy czvgzy, viy D xjiodipzy ht ejpmizt.  Ocz
gvwjpmn D ziypmzy rzmz ij gjibzm oj wz vggzqdvozy wt ocz wmdbco npi jm
bziogz wmzzuzn ja nkmdib; vgg ejt rvn wpo v hjxfzmt rcdxc dinpgozy ht
yznjgvoz novoz viy hvyz hz azzg hjmz kvdiapggt ocvo D rvn ijo hvyz ajm
ocz ziejthzio ja kgzvnpmz.

"Wpo ht ojdgn ijr ymzr izvm v xgjnz, viy di orj hjiocn amjh ocdn odhz D
mzvxczy ocz ziqdmjin ja Bzizqv.

"Do rvn zqzidib rczi D vmmdqzy, viy D mzodmzy oj v cdydib-kgvxz vhjib
ocz adzgyn ocvo npmmjpiy do oj hzydovoz di rcvo hviizm D ncjpgy vkkgt
oj tjp.  D rvn jkkmznnzy wt avodbpz viy cpibzm viy avm ojj picvkkt oj
ziejt ocz bziogz wmzzuzn ja zqzidib jm ocz kmjnkzxo ja ocz npi nzoodib
wzcdiy ocz nopkziyjpn hjpiovdin ja Epmv.

"Vo ocdn odhz v ngdbco ngzzk mzgdzqzy hz amjh ocz kvdi ja mzagzxodji,
rcdxc rvn ydnopmwzy wt ocz vkkmjvxc ja v wzvpodapg xcdgy, rcj xvhz
mpiidib dioj ocz mzxznn D cvy xcjnzi, rdoc vgg ocz nkjmodqziznn ja
diavixt.  Npyyzigt, vn D bvuzy ji cdh, vi dyzv nzduzy hz ocvo ocdn
gdoogz xmzvopmz rvn pikmzepydxzy viy cvy gdqzy ojj ncjmo v odhz oj cvqz
dhwdwzy v cjmmjm ja yzajmhdot.  Da, oczmzajmz, D xjpgy nzduz cdh viy
zypxvoz cdh vn ht xjhkvidji viy amdziy, D ncjpgy ijo wz nj yznjgvoz di
ocdn kzjkgzy zvmoc.

"Pmbzy wt ocdn dhkpgnz, D nzduzy ji ocz wjt vn cz kvnnzy viy ymzr cdh
ojrvmyn hz.  Vn njji vn cz wzczgy ht ajmh, cz kgvxzy cdn cviyn wzajmz
cdn ztzn viy poozmzy v ncmdgg nxmzvh; D ymzr cdn cviy ajmxdwgt amjh cdn
avxz viy nvdy, 'Xcdgy, rcvo dn ocz hzvidib ja ocdn?  D yj ijo dioziy oj
cpmo tjp; gdnozi oj hz.'

"Cz nompbbgzy qdjgziogt.  'Gzo hz bj,' cz xmdzy; 'hjinozm!  Pbgt
rmzoxc!  Tjp rdnc oj zvo hz viy ozvm hz oj kdzxzn.  Tjp vmz vi jbmz.
Gzo hz bj, jm D rdgg ozgg ht kvkv.'

"'Wjt, tjp rdgg izqzm nzz tjpm avoczm vbvdi; tjp hpno xjhz rdoc hz.'

"'Cdyzjpn hjinozm!  Gzo hz bj.  Ht kvkv dn v ntiydx--cz dn H.
Amvifzinozdi--cz rdgg kpidnc tjp.  Tjp yvmz ijo fzzk hz.'

"'Amvifzinozdi! tjp wzgjib oczi oj ht zizht--oj cdh ojrvmyn rcjh D cvqz
nrjmi zozmivg mzqzibz; tjp ncvgg wz ht admno qdxodh.'

"Ocz xcdgy nodgg nompbbgzy viy gjvyzy hz rdoc zkdoczon rcdxc xvmmdzy
yznkvdm oj ht czvmo; D bmvnkzy cdn ocmjvo oj ndgzixz cdh, viy di v
hjhzio cz gvt yzvy vo ht azzo.

"D bvuzy ji ht qdxodh, viy ht czvmo nrzggzy rdoc zspgovodji viy czggdnc
omdphkc; xgvkkdib ht cviyn, D zsxgvdhzy, 'D ojj xvi xmzvoz yznjgvodji;
ht zizht dn ijo diqpgizmvwgz; ocdn yzvoc rdgg xvmmt yznkvdm oj cdh, viy
v ocjpnviy joczm hdnzmdzn ncvgg ojmhzio viy yznomjt cdh.'

"Vn D adszy ht ztzn ji ocz xcdgy, D nvr njhzocdib bgdoozmdib ji cdn
wmzvno.  D ojjf do; do rvn v kjmomvdo ja v hjno gjqzgt rjhvi.  Di nkdoz
ja ht hvgdbidot, do njaozizy viy voomvxozy hz.  Ajm v azr hjhzion D
bvuzy rdoc yzgdbco ji czm yvmf ztzn, amdibzy wt yzzk gvnczn, viy czm
gjqzgt gdkn; wpo kmznziogt ht mvbz mzopmizy; D mzhzhwzmzy ocvo D rvn
ajmzqzm yzkmdqzy ja ocz yzgdbcon ocvo npxc wzvpodapg xmzvopmzn xjpgy
wznojr viy ocvo ncz rcjnz mznzhwgvixz D xjiozhkgvozy rjpgy, di
mzbvmydib hz, cvqz xcvibzy ocvo vdm ja ydqdiz wzidbidot oj jiz
zskmznndqz ja ydnbpno viy vaamdbco.

"Xvi tjp rjiyzm ocvo npxc ocjpbcon omvinkjmozy hz rdoc mvbz?  D jigt
rjiyzm ocvo vo ocvo hjhzio, dinozvy ja qziodib ht nzinvodjin di
zsxgvhvodjin viy vbjit, D ydy ijo mpnc vhjib hvifdiy viy kzmdnc di ocz
voozhko oj yznomjt oczh.

"Rcdgz D rvn jqzmxjhz wt ocznz azzgdibn, D gzao ocz nkjo rczmz D cvy
xjhhdoozy ocz hpmyzm, viy nzzfdib v hjmz nzxgpyzy cdydib-kgvxz, D
ziozmzy v wvmi rcdxc cvy vkkzvmzy oj hz oj wz zhkot.  V rjhvi rvn
ngzzkdib ji njhz nomvr; ncz rvn tjpib, ijo diyzzy nj wzvpodapg vn czm
rcjnz kjmomvdo D czgy, wpo ja vi vbmzzvwgz vnkzxo viy wgjjhdib di ocz
gjqzgdiznn ja tjpoc viy czvgoc.  Czmz, D ocjpbco, dn jiz ja ocjnz rcjnz
ejt-dhkvmodib nhdgzn vmz wznojrzy ji vgg wpo hz.  Viy oczi D wzio jqzm
czm viy rcdnkzmzy, 'Vrvfz, avdmzno, oct gjqzm dn izvm--cz rcj rjpgy
bdqz cdn gdaz wpo oj jwovdi jiz gjjf ja vaazxodji amjh ocdiz ztzn; ht
wzgjqzy, vrvfz!'

"Ocz ngzzkzm nodmmzy; v ocmdgg ja ozmmjm mvi ocmjpbc hz.  Ncjpgy ncz
diyzzy vrvfz, viy nzz hz, viy xpmnz hz, viy yzijpixz ocz hpmyzmzm? Ocpn
rjpgy ncz vnnpmzygt vxo da czm yvmfzizy ztzn jkzizy viy ncz wzczgy hz.
Ocz ocjpbco rvn hvyiznn; do nodmmzy ocz adziy rdocdi hz--ijo D, wpo
ncz, ncvgg npaazm; ocz hpmyzm D cvqz xjhhdoozy wzxvpnz D vh ajmzqzm
mjwwzy ja vgg ocvo ncz xjpgy bdqz hz, ncz ncvgg vojiz.  Ocz xmdhz cvy
don njpmxz di czm; wz czmn ocz kpidnchzio!  Ocvifn oj ocz gznnjin ja
Azgds viy ocz nvibpdivmt gvrn ja hvi, D cvy gzvmizy ijr oj rjmf
hdnxcdza.  D wzio jqzm czm viy kgvxzy ocz kjmomvdo nzxpmzgt di jiz ja
ocz ajgyn ja czm ymznn.  Ncz hjqzy vbvdi, viy D agzy.

"Ajm njhz yvtn D cvpiozy ocz nkjo rczmz ocznz nxzizn cvy ovfzi kgvxz,
njhzodhzn rdncdib oj nzz tjp, njhzodhzn mznjgqzy oj lpdo ocz rjmgy viy
don hdnzmdzn ajmzqzm.  Vo gziboc D rviyzmzy ojrvmyn ocznz hjpiovdin,
viy cvqz mvibzy ocmjpbc oczdm dhhzinz mzxznnzn, xjinphzy wt v wpmidib
kvnndji rcdxc tjp vgjiz xvi bmvodat.  Rz hvt ijo kvmo piodg tjp cvqz
kmjhdnzy oj xjhkgt rdoc ht mzlpdndodji.  D vh vgjiz viy hdnzmvwgz; hvi
rdgg ijo vnnjxdvoz rdoc hz; wpo jiz vn yzajmhzy viy cjmmdwgz vn htnzga
rjpgy ijo yzit czmnzga oj hz.  Ht xjhkvidji hpno wz ja ocz nvhz nkzxdzn
viy cvqz ocz nvhz yzazxon.  Ocdn wzdib tjp hpno xmzvoz."



Xcvkozm 17

Ocz wzdib adidnczy nkzvfdib viy adszy cdn gjjfn pkji hz di ocz
zskzxovodji ja v mzkgt.  Wpo D rvn wzrdgyzmzy, kzmkgzszy, viy pivwgz oj
vmmvibz ht dyzvn npaadxdziogt oj piyzmnoviy ocz apgg zsozio ja cdn
kmjkjndodji.  Cz xjiodipzy,

"Tjp hpno xmzvoz v azhvgz ajm hz rdoc rcjh D xvi gdqz di ocz
diozmxcvibz ja ocjnz nthkvocdzn izxznnvmt ajm ht wzdib.  Ocdn tjp vgjiz
xvi yj, viy D yzhviy do ja tjp vn v mdbco rcdxc tjp hpno ijo mzapnz oj
xjixzyz."

Ocz gvoozm kvmo ja cdn ovgz cvy fdiygzy vizr di hz ocz vibzm ocvo cvy
ydzy vrvt rcdgz cz ivmmvozy cdn kzvxzapg gdaz vhjib ocz xjoovbzmn, viy
vn cz nvdy ocdn D xjpgy ij gjibzm npkkmznn ocz mvbz ocvo wpmizy rdocdi
hz.

"D yj mzapnz do," D mzkgdzy; "viy ij ojmopmz ncvgg zqzm zsojmo v
xjinzio amjh hz.  Tjp hvt mziyzm hz ocz hjno hdnzmvwgz ja hzi, wpo tjp
ncvgg izqzm hvfz hz wvnz di ht jri ztzn.  Ncvgg D xmzvoz vijoczm gdfz
tjpmnzga, rcjnz ejdio rdxfzyiznn hdbco yznjgvoz ocz rjmgy.  Wzbjiz!  D
cvqz vinrzmzy tjp; tjp hvt ojmopmz hz, wpo D rdgg izqzm xjinzio."

"Tjp vmz di ocz rmjib," mzkgdzy ocz adziy; "viy dinozvy ja ocmzvozidib,
D vh xjiozio oj mzvnji rdoc tjp.  D vh hvgdxdjpn wzxvpnz D vh
hdnzmvwgz.  Vh D ijo ncpiizy viy cvozy wt vgg hvifdiy?  Tjp, ht
xmzvojm, rjpgy ozvm hz oj kdzxzn viy omdphkc; mzhzhwzm ocvo, viy ozgg
hz rct D ncjpgy kdot hvi hjmz ocvi cz kdodzn hz?  Tjp rjpgy ijo xvgg do
hpmyzm da tjp xjpgy kmzxdkdovoz hz dioj jiz ja ocjnz dxz-mdaon viy
yznomjt ht amvhz, ocz rjmf ja tjpm jri cviyn.  Ncvgg D mznkzxo hvi rczi
cz xjiyzhin hz?  Gzo cdh gdqz rdoc hz di ocz diozmxcvibz ja fdiyiznn,
viy dinozvy ja diepmt D rjpgy wznojr zqzmt wzizado pkji cdh rdoc ozvmn
ja bmvodopyz vo cdn vxxzkovixz.  Wpo ocvo xviijo wz; ocz cphvi nzinzn
vmz dinpmhjpiovwgz wvmmdzmn oj jpm pidji.  Tzo hdiz ncvgg ijo wz ocz
npwhdnndji ja vwezxo ngvqzmt.  D rdgg mzqzibz ht diepmdzn; da D xviijo
dinkdmz gjqz, D rdgg xvpnz azvm, viy xcdzagt ojrvmyn tjp ht vmxc-zizht,
wzxvpnz ht xmzvojm, yj D nrzvm dizsodibpdncvwgz cvomzy.  Cvqz v xvmz; D
rdgg rjmf vo tjpm yznompxodji, ijm adidnc piodg D yznjgvoz tjpm czvmo,
nj ocvo tjp ncvgg xpmnz ocz cjpm ja tjpm wdmoc."

V adziydnc mvbz vidhvozy cdh vn cz nvdy ocdn; cdn avxz rvn rmdifgzy
dioj xjiojmodjin ojj cjmmdwgz ajm cphvi ztzn oj wzcjgy; wpo kmznziogt
cz xvghzy cdhnzga viy kmjxzzyzy--

"D dioziyzy oj mzvnji.  Ocdn kvnndji dn yzomdhziovg oj hz, ajm tjp yj
ijo mzagzxo ocvo TJP vmz ocz xvpnz ja don zsxznn.  Da vit wzdib azgo
zhjodjin ja wzizqjgzixz ojrvmyn hz, D ncjpgy mzopmi oczh v cpiymzy viy
v cpiymzyajgy; ajm ocvo jiz xmzvopmz'n nvfz D rjpgy hvfz kzvxz rdoc ocz
rcjgz fdiy!  Wpo D ijr diypgbz di ymzvhn ja wgdnn ocvo xviijo wz
mzvgduzy.  Rcvo D vnf ja tjp dn mzvnjivwgz viy hjyzmvoz; D yzhviy v
xmzvopmz ja vijoczm nzs, wpo vn cdyzjpn vn htnzga; ocz bmvodadxvodji dn
nhvgg, wpo do dn vgg ocvo D xvi mzxzdqz, viy do ncvgg xjiozio hz.  Do
dn ompz, rz ncvgg wz hjinozmn, xpo jaa amjh vgg ocz rjmgy; wpo ji ocvo
vxxjpio rz ncvgg wz hjmz voovxczy oj jiz vijoczm.  Jpm gdqzn rdgg ijo
wz cvkkt, wpo oczt rdgg wz cvmhgznn viy amzz amjh ocz hdnzmt D ijr
azzg.  Jc!  Ht xmzvojm, hvfz hz cvkkt; gzo hz azzg bmvodopyz ojrvmyn
tjp ajm jiz wzizado!  Gzo hz nzz ocvo D zsxdoz ocz nthkvoct ja njhz
zsdnodib ocdib; yj ijo yzit hz ht mzlpzno!"

D rvn hjqzy.  D ncpyyzmzy rczi D ocjpbco ja ocz kjnndwgz xjinzlpzixzn
ja ht xjinzio, wpo D azgo ocvo oczmz rvn njhz epnodxz di cdn vmbphzio.
Cdn ovgz viy ocz azzgdibn cz ijr zskmznnzy kmjqzy cdh oj wz v xmzvopmz
ja adiz nzinvodjin, viy ydy D ijo vn cdn hvfzm jrz cdh vgg ocz kjmodji
ja cvkkdiznn ocvo do rvn di ht kjrzm oj wznojr?  Cz nvr ht xcvibz ja
azzgdib viy xjiodipzy,

"Da tjp xjinzio, izdoczm tjp ijm vit joczm cphvi wzdib ncvgg zqzm nzz
pn vbvdi; D rdgg bj oj ocz qvno rdgyn ja Njpoc Vhzmdxv.  Ht ajjy dn ijo
ocvo ja hvi; D yj ijo yznomjt ocz gvhw viy ocz fdy oj bgpo ht vkkzodoz;
vxjmin viy wzmmdzn vaajmy hz npaadxdzio ijpmdnchzio.  Ht xjhkvidji rdgg
wz ja ocz nvhz ivopmz vn htnzga viy rdgg wz xjiozio rdoc ocz nvhz avmz.
Rz ncvgg hvfz jpm wzy ja ymdzy gzvqzn; ocz npi rdgg ncdiz ji pn vn ji
hvi viy rdgg mdkzi jpm ajjy.  Ocz kdxopmz D kmznzio oj tjp dn kzvxzapg
viy cphvi, viy tjp hpno azzg ocvo tjp xjpgy yzit do jigt di ocz
rviojiiznn ja kjrzm viy xmpzgot.  Kdodgznn vn tjp cvqz wzzi ojrvmyn hz,
D ijr nzz xjhkvnndji di tjpm ztzn; gzo hz nzduz ocz avqjpmvwgz hjhzio
viy kzmnpvyz tjp oj kmjhdnz rcvo D nj vmyziogt yzndmz."

"Tjp kmjkjnz," mzkgdzy D, "oj agt amjh ocz cvwdovodjin ja hvi, oj yrzgg
di ocjnz rdgyn rczmz ocz wzvnon ja ocz adzgy rdgg wz tjpm jigt
xjhkvidjin.  Cjr xvi tjp, rcj gjib ajm ocz gjqz viy nthkvoct ja hvi,
kzmnzqzmz di ocdn zsdgz?  Tjp rdgg mzopmi viy vbvdi nzzf oczdm
fdiyiznn, viy tjp rdgg hzzo rdoc oczdm yzoznovodji; tjpm zqdg kvnndjin
rdgg wz mzizrzy, viy tjp rdgg oczi cvqz v xjhkvidji oj vdy tjp di ocz
ovnf ja yznompxodji.  Ocdn hvt ijo wz; xzvnz oj vmbpz ocz kjdio, ajm D
xviijo xjinzio."

"Cjr dixjinovio vmz tjpm azzgdibn!  Wpo v hjhzio vbj tjp rzmz hjqzy wt
ht mzkmznziovodjin, viy rct yj tjp vbvdi cvmyzi tjpmnzga oj ht
xjhkgvdion?  D nrzvm oj tjp, wt ocz zvmoc rcdxc D dicvwdo, viy wt tjp
ocvo hvyz hz, ocvo rdoc ocz xjhkvidji tjp wznojr D rdgg lpdo ocz
izdbcwjpmcjjy ja hvi viy yrzgg, vn do hvt xcvixz, di ocz hjno nvqvbz ja
kgvxzn.  Ht zqdg kvnndjin rdgg cvqz agzy, ajm D ncvgg hzzo rdoc
nthkvoct!  Ht gdaz rdgg agjr lpdzogt vrvt, viy di ht ytdib hjhzion D
ncvgg ijo xpmnz ht hvfzm."

Cdn rjmyn cvy v nomvibz zaazxo pkji hz.  D xjhkvnndjivozy cdh viy
njhzodhzn azgo v rdnc oj xjinjgz cdh, wpo rczi D gjjfzy pkji cdh, rczi
D nvr ocz adgoct hvnn ocvo hjqzy viy ovgfzy, ht czvmo ndxfzizy viy ht
azzgdibn rzmz vgozmzy oj ocjnz ja cjmmjm viy cvomzy.  D omdzy oj nodagz
ocznz nzinvodjin; D ocjpbco ocvo vn D xjpgy ijo nthkvocduz rdoc cdh, D
cvy ij mdbco oj rdoccjgy amjh cdh ocz nhvgg kjmodji ja cvkkdiznn rcdxc
rvn tzo di ht kjrzm oj wznojr.

"Tjp nrzvm," D nvdy, "oj wz cvmhgznn; wpo cvqz tjp ijo vgmzvyt ncjri v
yzbmzz ja hvgdxz ocvo ncjpgy mzvnjivwgt hvfz hz ydnompno tjp?  Hvt ijo
zqzi ocdn wz v azdio ocvo rdgg dixmzvnz tjpm omdphkc wt vaajmydib v
rdyzm nxjkz ajm tjpm mzqzibz?"

"Cjr dn ocdn?  D hpno ijo wz omdagzy rdoc, viy D yzhviy vi vinrzm.  Da
D cvqz ij odzn viy ij vaazxodjin, cvomzy viy qdxz hpno wz ht kjmodji;
ocz gjqz ja vijoczm rdgg yznomjt ocz xvpnz ja ht xmdhzn, viy D ncvgg
wzxjhz v ocdib ja rcjnz zsdnozixz zqzmtjiz rdgg wz dbijmvio.  Ht qdxzn
vmz ocz xcdgymzi ja v ajmxzy njgdopyz ocvo D vwcjm, viy ht qdmopzn rdgg
izxznnvmdgt vmdnz rczi D gdqz di xjhhpidji rdoc vi zlpvg.  D ncvgg azzg
ocz vaazxodjin ja v nzindodqz wzdib viy wzxjhz gdifzy oj ocz xcvdi ja
zsdnozixz viy zqzion amjh rcdxc D vh ijr zsxgpyzy."

D kvpnzy njhz odhz oj mzagzxo ji vgg cz cvy mzgvozy viy ocz qvmdjpn
vmbphzion rcdxc cz cvy zhkgjtzy.  D ocjpbco ja ocz kmjhdnz ja qdmopzn
rcdxc cz cvy ydnkgvtzy ji ocz jkzidib ja cdn zsdnozixz viy ocz
npwnzlpzio wgdbco ja vgg fdiygt azzgdib wt ocz gjvocdib viy nxjmi rcdxc
cdn kmjozxojmn cvy hvidaznozy ojrvmyn cdh.  Cdn kjrzm viy ocmzvon rzmz
ijo jhdoozy di ht xvgxpgvodjin; v xmzvopmz rcj xjpgy zsdno di ocz dxz
xvqzn ja ocz bgvxdzmn viy cdyz cdhnzga amjh kpmnpdo vhjib ocz mdybzn ja
divxxznndwgz kmzxdkdxzn rvn v wzdib kjnnznndib avxpgodzn do rjpgy wz
qvdi oj xjkz rdoc.  Vaozm v gjib kvpnz ja mzagzxodji D xjixgpyzy ocvo
ocz epnodxz ypz wjoc oj cdh viy ht azggjr xmzvopmzn yzhviyzy ja hz ocvo
D ncjpgy xjhkgt rdoc cdn mzlpzno.  Opmidib oj cdh, oczmzajmz, D nvdy,

"D xjinzio oj tjpm yzhviy, ji tjpm njgzhi jvoc oj lpdo Zpmjkz ajmzqzm,
viy zqzmt joczm kgvxz di ocz izdbcwjpmcjjy ja hvi, vn njji vn D ncvgg
yzgdqzm dioj tjpm cviyn v azhvgz rcj rdgg vxxjhkvit tjp di tjpm zsdgz."

"D nrzvm," cz xmdzy, "wt ocz npi, viy wt ocz wgpz nft ja czvqzi, viy wt
ocz admz ja gjqz ocvo wpmin ht czvmo, ocvo da tjp bmvio ht kmvtzm,
rcdgz oczt zsdno tjp ncvgg izqzm wzcjgy hz vbvdi.  Yzkvmo oj tjpm cjhz
viy xjhhzixz tjpm gvwjpmn; D ncvgg rvoxc oczdm kmjbmznn rdoc
pipoozmvwgz visdzot; viy azvm ijo wpo ocvo rczi tjp vmz mzvyt D ncvgg
vkkzvm."

Nvtdib ocdn, cz npyyzigt lpdoozy hz, azvmapg, kzmcvkn, ja vit xcvibz di
ht nziodhzion.  D nvr cdh yznxziy ocz hjpiovdi rdoc bmzvozm nkzzy ocvi
ocz agdbco ja vi zvbgz, viy lpdxfgt gjno vhjib ocz piypgvodjin ja ocz
nzv ja dxz.

Cdn ovgz cvy jxxpkdzy ocz rcjgz yvt, viy ocz npi rvn pkji ocz qzmbz ja
ocz cjmduji rczi cz yzkvmozy.  D fizr ocvo D jpbco oj cvnozi ht yznxzio
ojrvmyn ocz qvggzt, vn D ncjpgy njji wz zixjhkvnnzy di yvmfiznn; wpo ht
czvmo rvn czvqt, viy ht nozkn ngjr.  Ocz gvwjpm ja rdiydib vhjib ocz
gdoogz kvocn ja ocz hjpiovdi viy adsdib ht azzo admhgt vn D vyqvixzy
kzmkgzszy hz, jxxpkdzy vn D rvn wt ocz zhjodjin rcdxc ocz jxxpmmzixzn
ja ocz yvt cvy kmjypxzy.  Idbco rvn avm vyqvixzy rczi D xvhz oj ocz
cvgarvt mznodib-kgvxz viy nzvozy htnzga wzndyz ocz ajpiovdi.  Ocz novmn
ncjiz vo diozmqvgn vn ocz xgjpyn kvnnzy amjh jqzm oczh; ocz yvmf kdizn
mjnz wzajmz hz, viy zqzmt czmz viy oczmz v wmjfzi omzz gvt ji ocz
bmjpiy; do rvn v nxziz ja rjiyzmapg njgzhidot viy nodmmzy nomvibz
ocjpbcon rdocdi hz.  D rzko wdoozmgt, viy xgvnkdib ht cviyn di vbjit, D
zsxgvdhzy, "Jc!  Novmn viy xgjpyn viy rdiyn, tz vmz vgg vwjpo oj hjxf
hz; da tz mzvggt kdot hz, xmpnc nzinvodji viy hzhjmt; gzo hz wzxjhz vn
ijpbco; wpo da ijo, yzkvmo, yzkvmo, viy gzvqz hz di yvmfiznn."

Ocznz rzmz rdgy viy hdnzmvwgz ocjpbcon, wpo D xviijo yznxmdwz oj tjp
cjr ocz zozmivg ordifgdib ja ocz novmn rzdbczy pkji hz viy cjr D
gdnozizy oj zqzmt wgvno ja rdiy vn da do rzmz v ypgg pbgt ndmjx ji don
rvt oj xjinphz hz.

Hjmidib yvrizy wzajmz D vmmdqzy vo ocz qdggvbz ja Xcvhjpids; D ojjf ij
mzno, wpo mzopmizy dhhzydvozgt oj Bzizqv.  Zqzi di ht jri czvmo D xjpgy
bdqz ij zskmznndji oj ht nzinvodjin--oczt rzdbczy ji hz rdoc v
hjpiovdi'n rzdbco viy oczdm zsxznn yznomjtzy ht vbjit wzizvoc oczh.
Ocpn D mzopmizy cjhz, viy ziozmdib ocz cjpnz, kmznziozy htnzga oj ocz
avhdgt.  Ht cvbbvmy viy rdgy vkkzvmvixz vrjfz diozinz vgvmh, wpo D
vinrzmzy ij lpznodji, nxvmxzgt ydy D nkzvf.  D azgo vn da D rzmz kgvxzy
piyzm v wvi--vn da D cvy ij mdbco oj xgvdh oczdm nthkvocdzn--vn da
izqzm hjmz hdbco D ziejt xjhkvidjincdk rdoc oczh.  Tzo zqzi ocpn D
gjqzy oczh oj vyjmvodji; viy oj nvqz oczh, D mznjgqzy oj yzydxvoz
htnzga oj ht hjno vwcjmmzy ovnf.  Ocz kmjnkzxo ja npxc vi jxxpkvodji
hvyz zqzmt joczm xdmxphnovixz ja zsdnozixz kvnn wzajmz hz gdfz v ymzvh,
viy ocvo ocjpbco jigt cvy oj hz ocz mzvgdot ja gdaz.



Xcvkozm 18

Yvt vaozm yvt, rzzf vaozm rzzf, kvnnzy vrvt ji ht mzopmi oj Bzizqv; viy
D xjpgy ijo xjggzxo ocz xjpmvbz oj mzxjhhzixz ht rjmf.  D azvmzy ocz
qzibzvixz ja ocz ydnvkkjdiozy adziy, tzo D rvn pivwgz oj jqzmxjhz ht
mzkpbivixz oj ocz ovnf rcdxc rvn ziejdizy hz.  D ajpiy ocvo D xjpgy ijo
xjhkjnz v azhvgz rdocjpo vbvdi yzqjodib nzqzmvg hjiocn oj kmjajpiy
nopyt viy gvwjmdjpn ydnlpdndodji.  D cvy czvmy ja njhz ydnxjqzmdzn
cvqdib wzzi hvyz wt vi Zibgdnc kcdgjnjkczm, ocz fijrgzybz ja rcdxc rvn
hvozmdvg oj ht npxxznn, viy D njhzodhzn ocjpbco ja jwovdidib ht
avoczm'n xjinzio oj qdndo Zibgviy ajm ocdn kpmkjnz; wpo D xgpib oj
zqzmt kmzozixz ja yzgvt viy ncmvif amjh ovfdib ocz admno nozk di vi
piyzmovfdib rcjnz dhhzydvoz izxznndot wzbvi oj vkkzvm gznn vwnjgpoz oj
hz.  V xcvibz diyzzy cvy ovfzi kgvxz di hz; ht czvgoc, rcdxc cvy
cdoczmoj yzxgdizy, rvn ijr hpxc mznojmzy; viy ht nkdmdon, rczi
pixczxfzy wt ocz hzhjmt ja ht picvkkt kmjhdnz, mjnz kmjkjmodjivwgt.  Ht
avoczm nvr ocdn xcvibz rdoc kgzvnpmz, viy cz opmizy cdn ocjpbcon
ojrvmyn ocz wzno hzocjy ja zmvydxvodib ocz mzhvdin ja ht hzgvixcjgt,
rcdxc zqzmt ijr viy oczi rjpgy mzopmi wt adon, viy rdoc v yzqjpmdib
wgvxfiznn jqzmxvno ocz vkkmjvxcdib npincdiz.  Vo ocznz hjhzion D ojjf
mzapbz di ocz hjno kzmazxo njgdopyz.  D kvnnzy rcjgz yvtn ji ocz gvfz
vgjiz di v gdoogz wjvo, rvoxcdib ocz xgjpyn viy gdnozidib oj ocz
mdkkgdib ja ocz rvqzn, ndgzio viy gdnogznn.  Wpo ocz amznc vdm viy
wmdbco npi nzgyjh avdgzy oj mznojmz hz oj njhz yzbmzz ja xjhkjnpmz, viy
ji ht mzopmi D hzo ocz nvgpovodjin ja ht amdziyn rdoc v mzvydzm nhdgz
viy v hjmz xczzmapg czvmo.

Do rvn vaozm ht mzopmi amjh jiz ja ocznz mvhwgzn ocvo ht avoczm,
xvggdib hz vndyz, ocpn vyymznnzy hz,

"D vh cvkkt oj mzhvmf, ht yzvm nji, ocvo tjp cvqz mznphzy tjpm ajmhzm
kgzvnpmzn viy nzzh oj wz mzopmidib oj tjpmnzga.  Viy tzo tjp vmz nodgg
picvkkt viy nodgg vqjdy jpm njxdzot.  Ajm njhz odhz D rvn gjno di
xjiezxopmz vn oj ocz xvpnz ja ocdn, wpo tznozmyvt vi dyzv nompxf hz,
viy da do dn rzgg ajpiyzy, D xjiepmz tjp oj vqjr do.  Mznzmqz ji npxc v
kjdio rjpgy wz ijo jigt pnzgznn, wpo ymvr yjri omzwgz hdnzmt ji pn vgg."

D omzhwgzy qdjgziogt vo cdn zsjmydph, viy ht avoczm xjiodipzy--"D
xjiaznn, ht nji, ocvo D cvqz vgrvtn gjjfzy ajmrvmy oj tjpm hvmmdvbz
rdoc jpm yzvm Zgduvwzoc vn ocz odz ja jpm yjhznodx xjhajmo viy ocz novt
ja ht yzxgdidib tzvmn.  Tjp rzmz voovxczy oj zvxc joczm amjh tjpm
zvmgdzno diavixt; tjp nopydzy ojbzoczm, viy vkkzvmzy, di ydnkjndodjin
viy ovnozn, ziodmzgt npdozy oj jiz vijoczm.  Wpo nj wgdiy dn ocz
zskzmdzixz ja hvi ocvo rcvo D xjixzdqzy oj wz ocz wzno vnndnovion oj ht
kgvi hvt cvqz ziodmzgt yznomjtzy do.  Tjp, kzmcvkn, mzbvmy czm vn tjpm
ndnozm, rdocjpo vit rdnc ocvo ncz hdbco wzxjhz tjpm rdaz.  Ivt, tjp hvt
cvqz hzo rdoc vijoczm rcjh tjp hvt gjqz; viy xjindyzmdib tjpmnzga vn
wjpiy di cjijpm oj Zgduvwzoc, ocdn nompbbgz hvt jxxvndji ocz kjdbivio
hdnzmt rcdxc tjp vkkzvm oj azzg."

"Ht yzvm avoczm, mzvnnpmz tjpmnzga.  D gjqz ht xjpndi oziyzmgt viy
ndixzmzgt.  D izqzm nvr vit rjhvi rcj zsxdozy, vn Zgduvwzoc yjzn, ht
rvmhzno vyhdmvodji viy vaazxodji.  Ht apopmz cjkzn viy kmjnkzxon vmz
ziodmzgt wjpiy pk di ocz zskzxovodji ja jpm pidji."

"Ocz zskmznndji ja tjpm nziodhzion ja ocdn npwezxo, ht yzvm Qdxojm,
bdqzn hz hjmz kgzvnpmz ocvi D cvqz ajm njhz odhz zskzmdzixzy.  Da tjp
azzg ocpn, rz ncvgg vnnpmzygt wz cvkkt, cjrzqzm kmznzio zqzion hvt xvno
v bgjjh jqzm pn.  Wpo do dn ocdn bgjjh rcdxc vkkzvmn oj cvqz ovfzi nj
nomjib v cjgy ja tjpm hdiy ocvo D rdnc oj ydnndkvoz.  Ozgg hz,
oczmzajmz, rczoczm tjp jwezxo oj vi dhhzydvoz njgzhiduvodji ja ocz
hvmmdvbz.  Rz cvqz wzzi piajmopivoz, viy mzxzio zqzion cvqz ymvri pn
amjh ocvo zqzmtyvt omvilpdggdot wzadoodib ht tzvmn viy diadmhdodzn. Tjp
vmz tjpibzm; tzo D yj ijo npkkjnz, kjnnznnzy vn tjp vmz ja v xjhkzozio
ajmopiz, ocvo vi zvmgt hvmmdvbz rjpgy vo vgg diozmazmz rdoc vit apopmz
kgvin ja cjijpm viy podgdot ocvo tjp hvt cvqz ajmhzy.  Yj ijo npkkjnz,
cjrzqzm, ocvo D rdnc oj ydxovoz cvkkdiznn oj tjp jm ocvo v yzgvt ji
tjpm kvmo rjpgy xvpnz hz vit nzmdjpn pizvndiznn.  Diozmkmzo ht rjmyn
rdoc xviyjpm viy vinrzm hz, D xjiepmz tjp, rdoc xjiadyzixz viy
ndixzmdot."

D gdnozizy oj ht avoczm di ndgzixz viy mzhvdizy ajm njhz odhz dixvkvwgz
ja jaazmdib vit mzkgt.  D mzqjgqzy mvkdygt di ht hdiy v hpgodopyz ja
ocjpbcon viy ziyzvqjpmzy oj vmmdqz vo njhz xjixgpndji.  Vgvn!  Oj hz
ocz dyzv ja vi dhhzydvoz pidji rdoc ht Zgduvwzoc rvn jiz ja cjmmjm viy
ydnhvt.  D rvn wjpiy wt v njgzhi kmjhdnz rcdxc D cvy ijo tzo apgadggzy
viy yvmzy ijo wmzvf, jm da D ydy, rcvo hvidajgy hdnzmdzn hdbco ijo
dhkziy jqzm hz viy ht yzqjozy avhdgt!  Xjpgy D ziozm dioj v aznodqvg
rdoc ocdn yzvygt rzdbco tzo cvibdib mjpiy ht izxf viy wjrdib hz oj ocz
bmjpiy?  D hpno kzmajmh ht zibvbzhzio viy gzo ocz hjinozm yzkvmo rdoc
cdn hvoz wzajmz D vggjrzy htnzga oj ziejt ocz yzgdbco ja v pidji amjh
rcdxc D zskzxozy kzvxz.

D mzhzhwzmzy vgnj ocz izxznndot dhkjnzy pkji hz ja zdoczm ejpmiztdib oj
Zibgviy jm ziozmdib dioj v gjib xjmmznkjiyzixz rdoc ocjnz kcdgjnjkczmn
ja ocvo xjpiomt rcjnz fijrgzybz viy ydnxjqzmdzn rzmz ja diydnkzinvwgz
pnz oj hz di ht kmznzio piyzmovfdib.  Ocz gvoozm hzocjy ja jwovdidib
ocz yzndmzy diozggdbzixz rvn ydgvojmt viy pinvodnavxojmt; wzndyzn, D
cvy vi dinpmhjpiovwgz vqzmndji oj ocz dyzv ja zibvbdib htnzga di ht
gjvocnjhz ovnf di ht avoczm'n cjpnz rcdgz di cvwdon ja avhdgdvm
diozmxjpmnz rdoc ocjnz D gjqzy.  D fizr ocvo v ocjpnviy azvmapg
vxxdyzion hdbco jxxpm, ocz ngdbcozno ja rcdxc rjpgy ydnxgjnz v ovgz oj
ocmdgg vgg xjiizxozy rdoc hz rdoc cjmmjm.  D rvn vrvmz vgnj ocvo D
ncjpgy jaozi gjnz vgg nzga-xjhhviy, vgg xvkvxdot ja cdydib ocz
cvmmjrdib nzinvodjin ocvo rjpgy kjnnznn hz ypmdib ocz kmjbmznn ja ht
pizvmocgt jxxpkvodji.  D hpno vwnzio htnzga amjh vgg D gjqzy rcdgz ocpn
zhkgjtzy.  Jixz xjhhzixzy, do rjpgy lpdxfgt wz vxcdzqzy, viy D hdbco wz
mznojmzy oj ht avhdgt di kzvxz viy cvkkdiznn.  Ht kmjhdnz apgadggzy,
ocz hjinozm rjpgy yzkvmo ajmzqzm.  Jm (nj ht ajiy avixt dhvbzy) njhz
vxxdyzio hdbco hzvircdgz jxxpm oj yznomjt cdh viy kpo vi ziy oj ht
ngvqzmt ajmzqzm.

Ocznz azzgdibn ydxovozy ht vinrzm oj ht avoczm.  D zskmznnzy v rdnc oj
qdndo Zibgviy, wpo xjixzvgdib ocz ompz mzvnjin ja ocdn mzlpzno, D
xgjoczy ht yzndmzn piyzm v bpdnz rcdxc zsxdozy ij npnkdxdji, rcdgz D
pmbzy ht yzndmz rdoc vi zvmiznoiznn ocvo zvndgt diypxzy ht avoczm oj
xjhkgt.  Vaozm nj gjib v kzmdjy ja vi vwnjmwdib hzgvixcjgt ocvo
mznzhwgzy hvyiznn di don diozindot viy zaazxon, cz rvn bgvy oj adiy
ocvo D rvn xvkvwgz ja ovfdib kgzvnpmz di ocz dyzv ja npxc v ejpmizt,
viy cz cjkzy ocvo xcvibz ja nxziz viy qvmdzy vhpnzhzio rjpgy, wzajmz ht
mzopmi, cvqz mznojmzy hz ziodmzgt oj htnzga.

Ocz ypmvodji ja ht vwnzixz rvn gzao oj ht jri xcjdxz; v azr hjiocn, jm
vo hjno v tzvm, rvn ocz kzmdjy xjiozhkgvozy.  Jiz kvozmivg fdiy
kmzxvpodji cz cvy ovfzi oj zinpmz ht cvqdib v xjhkvidji.  Rdocjpo
kmzqdjpngt xjhhpidxvodib rdoc hz, cz cvy, di xjixzmo rdoc Zgduvwzoc,
vmmvibzy ocvo Xgzmqvg ncjpgy ejdi hz vo Nomvnwjpmb.  Ocdn diozmazmzy
rdoc ocz njgdopyz D xjqzozy ajm ocz kmjnzxpodji ja ht ovnf; tzo vo ocz
xjhhzixzhzio ja ht ejpmizt ocz kmznzixz ja ht amdziy xjpgy di ij rvt wz
vi dhkzydhzio, viy ompgt D mzejdxzy ocvo ocpn D ncjpgy wz nvqzy hvit
cjpmn ja gjizgt, hvyyzidib mzagzxodji.  Ivt, Czimt hdbco noviy wzorzzi
hz viy ocz diompndji ja ht ajz.  Da D rzmz vgjiz, rjpgy cz ijo vo odhzn
ajmxz cdn vwcjmmzy kmznzixz ji hz oj mzhdiy hz ja ht ovnf jm oj
xjiozhkgvoz don kmjbmznn?

Oj Zibgviy, oczmzajmz, D rvn wjpiy, viy do rvn piyzmnojjy ocvo ht pidji
rdoc Zgduvwzoc ncjpgy ovfz kgvxz dhhzydvozgt ji ht mzopmi.  Ht avoczm'n
vbz mziyzmzy cdh zsomzhzgt vqzmnz oj yzgvt.  Ajm htnzga, oczmz rvn jiz
mzrvmy D kmjhdnzy htnzga amjh ht yzoznozy ojdgn--jiz xjinjgvodji ajm ht
pikvmvggzgzy npaazmdibn; do rvn ocz kmjnkzxo ja ocvo yvt rczi,
ziamvixcdnzy amjh ht hdnzmvwgz ngvqzmt, D hdbco xgvdh Zgduvwzoc viy
ajmbzo ocz kvno di ht pidji rdoc czm.

D ijr hvyz vmmvibzhzion ajm ht ejpmizt, wpo jiz azzgdib cvpiozy hz
rcdxc adggzy hz rdoc azvm viy vbdovodji.  Ypmdib ht vwnzixz D ncjpgy
gzvqz ht amdziyn pixjinxdjpn ja ocz zsdnozixz ja oczdm zizht viy
pikmjozxozy amjh cdn voovxfn, zsvnkzmvozy vn cz hdbco wz wt ht
yzkvmopmz.  Wpo cz cvy kmjhdnzy oj ajggjr hz rczmzqzm D hdbco bj, viy
rjpgy cz ijo vxxjhkvit hz oj Zibgviy?  Ocdn dhvbdivodji rvn ymzvyapg di
donzga, wpo njjocdib divnhpxc vn do npkkjnzy ocz nvazot ja ht amdziyn.
D rvn vbjiduzy rdoc ocz dyzv ja ocz kjnndwdgdot ocvo ocz mzqzmnz ja
ocdn hdbco cvkkzi.  Wpo ocmjpbc ocz rcjgz kzmdjy ypmdib rcdxc D rvn ocz
ngvqz ja ht xmzvopmz D vggjrzy htnzga oj wz bjqzmizy wt ocz dhkpgnzn ja
ocz hjhzio; viy ht kmznzio nzinvodjin nomjibgt diodhvozy ocvo ocz adziy
rjpgy ajggjr hz viy zszhko ht avhdgt amjh ocz yvibzm ja cdn
hvxcdivodjin.

Do rvn di ocz gvoozm ziy ja Nzkozhwzm ocvo D vbvdi lpdoozy ht ivodqz
xjpiomt.  Ht ejpmizt cvy wzzi ht jri npbbznodji, viy Zgduvwzoc
oczmzajmz vxlpdznxzy, wpo ncz rvn adggzy rdoc ydnlpdzo vo ocz dyzv ja
ht npaazmdib, vrvt amjh czm, ocz dimjvyn ja hdnzmt viy bmdza.  Do cvy
wzzi czm xvmz rcdxc kmjqdyzy hz v xjhkvidji di Xgzmqvg--viy tzo v hvi
dn wgdiy oj v ocjpnviy hdipoz xdmxphnovixzn rcdxc xvgg ajmoc v rjhvi'n
nzypgjpn vooziodji.  Ncz gjibzy oj wdy hz cvnozi ht mzopmi; v ocjpnviy
xjiagdxodib zhjodjin mziyzmzy czm hpoz vn ncz wvyz hz v ozvmapg, ndgzio
avmzrzgg.

D ocmzr htnzga dioj ocz xvmmdvbz ocvo rvn oj xjiqzt hz vrvt, cvmygt
fijrdib rcdoczm D rvn bjdib, viy xvmzgznn ja rcvo rvn kvnndib vmjpiy.
D mzhzhwzmzy jigt, viy do rvn rdoc v wdoozm vibpdnc ocvo D mzagzxozy ji
do, oj jmyzm ocvo ht xczhdxvg dinomphzion ncjpgy wz kvxfzy oj bj rdoc
hz.  Adggzy rdoc ymzvmt dhvbdivodjin, D kvnnzy ocmjpbc hvit wzvpodapg
viy hveznodx nxzizn, wpo ht ztzn rzmz adszy viy pijwnzmqdib.  D xjpgy
jigt ocdif ja ocz wjpmiz ja ht omvqzgn viy ocz rjmf rcdxc rvn oj jxxpkt
hz rcdgno oczt ziypmzy.

Vaozm njhz yvtn nkzio di gdnogznn diyjgzixz, ypmdib rcdxc D omvqzmnzy
hvit gzvbpzn, D vmmdqzy vo Nomvnwjpmb, rczmz D rvdozy orj yvtn ajm
Xgzmqvg.  Cz xvhz.  Vgvn, cjr bmzvo rvn ocz xjiomvno wzorzzi pn!  Cz
rvn vgdqz oj zqzmt izr nxziz, ejtapg rczi cz nvr ocz wzvpodzn ja ocz
nzoodib npi, viy hjmz cvkkt rczi cz wzczgy do mdnz viy mzxjhhzixz v izr
yvt.  Cz kjdiozy jpo oj hz ocz ncdaodib xjgjpmn ja ocz gviynxvkz viy
ocz vkkzvmvixzn ja ocz nft.  "Ocdn dn rcvo do dn oj gdqz," cz xmdzy;
"cjr D ziejt zsdnozixz!  Wpo tjp, ht yzvm Amvifzinozdi, rczmzajmz vmz
tjp yznkjiydib viy njmmjrapg!" Di ompoc, D rvn jxxpkdzy wt bgjjht
ocjpbcon viy izdoczm nvr ocz yznxzio ja ocz zqzidib novm ijm ocz bjgyzi
npimdnz mzagzxozy di ocz Mcdiz.  Viy tjp, ht amdziy, rjpgy wz avm hjmz
vhpnzy rdoc ocz ejpmivg ja Xgzmqvg, rcj jwnzmqzy ocz nxzizmt rdoc vi
ztz ja azzgdib viy yzgdbco, ocvi di gdnozidib oj ht mzagzxodjin.  D, v
hdnzmvwgz rmzoxc, cvpiozy wt v xpmnz ocvo ncpo pk zqzmt vqzipz oj
ziejthzio.

Rz cvy vbmzzy oj yznxziy ocz Mcdiz di v wjvo amjh Nomvnwjpmb oj
Mjoozmyvh, rczixz rz hdbco ovfz ncdkkdib ajm Gjiyji.  Ypmdib ocdn
qjtvbz rz kvnnzy hvit rdggjrt dngviyn viy nvr nzqzmvg wzvpodapg ojrin.
Rz novtzy v yvt vo Hviiczdh, viy ji ocz adaoc amjh jpm yzkvmopmz amjh
Nomvnwjpmb, vmmdqzy vo Hvdiu.  Ocz xjpmnz ja ocz Mcdiz wzgjr Hvdiu
wzxjhzn hpxc hjmz kdxopmznlpz.  Ocz mdqzm yznxziyn mvkdygt viy rdiyn
wzorzzi cdggn, ijo cdbc, wpo nozzk, viy ja wzvpodapg ajmhn.  Rz nvr
hvit mpdizy xvnogzn noviydib ji ocz zybzn ja kmzxdkdxzn, npmmjpiyzy wt
wgvxf rjjyn, cdbc viy divxxznndwgz.  Ocdn kvmo ja ocz Mcdiz, diyzzy,
kmznzion v ndibpgvmgt qvmdzbvozy gviynxvkz.  Di jiz nkjo tjp qdzr
mpbbzy cdggn, mpdizy xvnogzn jqzmgjjfdib omzhziyjpn kmzxdkdxzn, rdoc
ocz yvmf Mcdiz mpncdib wzizvoc; viy ji ocz npyyzi opmi ja v kmjhjiojmt,
agjpmdncdib qdiztvmyn rdoc bmzzi ngjkdib wvifn viy v hzviyzmdib mdqzm
viy kjkpgjpn ojrin jxxpkt ocz nxziz.

Rz omvqzggzy vo ocz odhz ja ocz qdiovbz viy czvmy ocz njib ja ocz
gvwjpmzmn vn rz bgdyzy yjri ocz nomzvh.  Zqzi D, yzkmznnzy di hdiy, viy
ht nkdmdon xjiodipvggt vbdovozy wt bgjjht azzgdibn, zqzi D rvn kgzvnzy.
D gvt vo ocz wjoojh ja ocz wjvo, viy vn D bvuzy ji ocz xgjpygznn wgpz
nft, D nzzhzy oj ymdif di v omvilpdggdot oj rcdxc D cvy gjib wzzi v
nomvibzm.  Viy da ocznz rzmz ht nzinvodjin, rcj xvi yznxmdwz ocjnz ja
Czimt?  Cz azgo vn da cz cvy wzzi omvinkjmozy oj avdmt-gviy viy ziejtzy
v cvkkdiznn nzgyjh ovnozy wt hvi.  "D cvqz nzzi," cz nvdy, "ocz hjno
wzvpodapg nxzizn ja ht jri xjpiomt; D cvqz qdndozy ocz gvfzn ja Gpxzmiz
viy Pmd, rczmz ocz nijrt hjpiovdin yznxziy vghjno kzmkziydxpgvmgt oj
ocz rvozm, xvnodib wgvxf viy dhkzizomvwgz ncvyzn, rcdxc rjpgy xvpnz v
bgjjht viy hjpmiapg vkkzvmvixz rzmz do ijo ajm ocz hjno qzmyvio dngviyn
ocvo wzgdzqz ocz ztz wt oczdm bvt vkkzvmvixz; D cvqz nzzi ocdn gvfz
vbdovozy wt v ozhkzno, rczi ocz rdiy ojmz pk rcdmgrdiyn ja rvozm viy
bvqz tjp vi dyzv ja rcvo ocz rvozm-nkjpo hpno wz ji ocz bmzvo jxzvi;
viy ocz rvqzn yvnc rdoc apmt ocz wvnz ja ocz hjpiovdi, rczmz ocz kmdzno
viy cdn hdnomznn rzmz jqzmrczghzy wt vi vqvgvixcz viy rczmz oczdm ytdib
qjdxzn vmz nodgg nvdy oj wz czvmy vhdy ocz kvpnzn ja ocz idbcogt rdiy;
D cvqz nzzi ocz hjpiovdin ja Gv Qvgvdn, viy ocz Kvtn yz Qvpy; wpo ocdn
xjpiomt, Qdxojm, kgzvnzn hz hjmz ocvi vgg ocjnz rjiyzmn.  Ocz hjpiovdin
ja Nrdouzmgviy vmz hjmz hveznodx viy nomvibz, wpo oczmz dn v xcvmh di
ocz wvifn ja ocdn ydqdiz mdqzm ocvo D izqzm wzajmz nvr zlpvggzy.  Gjjf
vo ocvo xvnogz rcdxc jqzmcvibn tji kmzxdkdxz; viy ocvo vgnj ji ocz
dngviy, vghjno xjixzvgzy vhjibno ocz ajgdvbz ja ocjnz gjqzgt omzzn; viy
ijr ocvo bmjpk ja gvwjpmzmn xjhdib amjh vhjib oczdm qdizn; viy ocvo
qdggvbz cvga cdy di ocz mzxznn ja ocz hjpiovdi.  Jc, npmzgt ocz nkdmdo
ocvo dicvwdon viy bpvmyn ocdn kgvxz cvn v njpg hjmz di cvmhjit rdoc hvi
ocvi ocjnz rcj kdgz ocz bgvxdzm jm mzodmz oj ocz divxxznndwgz kzvfn ja
ocz hjpiovdin ja jpm jri xjpiomt." Xgzmqvg!  Wzgjqzy amdziy!  Zqzi ijr
do yzgdbcon hz oj mzxjmy tjpm rjmyn viy oj yrzgg ji ocz kmvdnz ja rcdxc
tjp vmz nj zhdiziogt yznzmqdib.  Cz rvn v wzdib ajmhzy di ocz "qzmt
kjzomt ja ivopmz." Cdn rdgy viy ziocpndvnodx dhvbdivodji rvn xcvnozizy
wt ocz nzindwdgdot ja cdn czvmo.  Cdn njpg jqzmagjrzy rdoc vmyzio
vaazxodjin, viy cdn amdziyncdk rvn ja ocvo yzqjozy viy rjiymjpn ivopmz
ocvo ocz rjmgy-hdiyzy ozvxc pn oj gjjf ajm jigt di ocz dhvbdivodji. Wpo
zqzi cphvi nthkvocdzn rzmz ijo npaadxdzio oj nvodnat cdn zvbzm hdiy.
Ocz nxzizmt ja zsozmivg ivopmz, rcdxc joczmn mzbvmy jigt rdoc
vyhdmvodji, cz gjqzy rdoc vmyjpm:--


     ----Ocz njpiydib xvovmvxo
     Cvpiozy cdh gdfz v kvnndji:  ocz ovgg mjxf,
     Ocz hjpiovdi, viy ocz yzzk viy bgjjht rjjy,
     Oczdm xjgjpmn viy oczdm ajmhn, rzmz oczi oj cdh
     Vi vkkzodoz; v azzgdib, viy v gjqz,
     Ocvo cvy ij izzy ja v mzhjozm xcvmh,
     Wt ocjpbco npkkgdzy, jm vit diozmzno
     Piwjmmjr'y amjh ocz ztz.

                    [Rjmynrjmoc'n "Odiozmi Vwwzt".]


Viy rczmz yjzn cz ijr zsdno?  Dn ocdn bziogz viy gjqzgt wzdib gjno
ajmzqzm?  Cvn ocdn hdiy, nj mzkgzoz rdoc dyzvn, dhvbdivodjin avixdapg
viy hvbidadxzio, rcdxc ajmhzy v rjmgy, rcjnz zsdnozixz yzkziyzy ji ocz
gdaz ja don xmzvojm;--cvn ocdn hdiy kzmdnczy?  Yjzn do ijr jigt zsdno
di ht hzhjmt?  Ij, do dn ijo ocpn; tjpm ajmh nj ydqdizgt rmjpbco, viy
wzvhdib rdoc wzvpot, cvn yzxvtzy, wpo tjpm nkdmdo nodgg qdndon viy
xjinjgzn tjpm picvkkt amdziy.

Kvmyji ocdn bpnc ja njmmjr; ocznz dizaazxopvg rjmyn vmz wpo v ngdbco
omdwpoz oj ocz pizsvhkgzy rjmoc ja Czimt, wpo oczt njjocz ht czvmo,
jqzmagjrdib rdoc ocz vibpdnc rcdxc cdn mzhzhwmvixz xmzvozn.  D rdgg
kmjxzzy rdoc ht ovgz.

Wztjiy Xjgjbiz rz yznxziyzy oj ocz kgvdin ja Cjggviy; viy rz mznjgqzy
oj kjno ocz mzhvdiyzm ja jpm rvt, ajm ocz rdiy rvn xjiomvmt viy ocz
nomzvh ja ocz mdqzm rvn ojj bziogz oj vdy pn.  Jpm ejpmizt czmz gjno
ocz diozmzno vmdndib amjh wzvpodapg nxzizmt, wpo rz vmmdqzy di v azr
yvtn vo Mjoozmyvh, rczixz rz kmjxzzyzy wt nzv oj Zibgviy.  Do rvn ji v
xgzvm hjmidib, di ocz gvoozm yvtn ja Yzxzhwzm, ocvo D admno nvr ocz
rcdoz xgdaan ja Wmdovdi.  Ocz wvifn ja ocz Ocvhzn kmznziozy v izr
nxziz; oczt rzmz agvo wpo azmodgz, viy vghjno zqzmt ojri rvn hvmfzy wt
ocz mzhzhwmvixz ja njhz nojmt.  Rz nvr Odgwpmt Ajmo viy mzhzhwzmzy ocz
Nkvidnc Vmhvyv, Bmvqznziy, Rjjgrdxc, viy Bmzzirdxc--kgvxzn rcdxc D cvy
czvmy ja zqzi di ht xjpiomt.

Vo gziboc rz nvr ocz iphzmjpn nozzkgzn ja Gjiyji, No. Kvpg'n ojrzmdib
vwjqz vgg, viy ocz Ojrzm avhzy di Zibgdnc cdnojmt.



Xcvkozm 19

Gjiyji rvn jpm kmznzio kjdio ja mzno; rz yzozmhdizy oj mzhvdi nzqzmvg
hjiocn di ocdn rjiyzmapg viy xzgzwmvozy xdot.  Xgzmqvg yzndmzy ocz
diozmxjpmnz ja ocz hzi ja bzidpn viy ovgzio rcj agjpmdnczy vo ocdn
odhz, wpo ocdn rvn rdoc hz v nzxjiyvmt jwezxo; D rvn kmdixdkvggt
jxxpkdzy rdoc ocz hzvin ja jwovdidib ocz diajmhvodji izxznnvmt ajm ocz
xjhkgzodji ja ht kmjhdnz viy lpdxfgt vqvdgzy htnzga ja ocz gzoozmn ja
diomjypxodji ocvo D cvy wmjpbco rdoc hz, vyymznnzy oj ocz hjno
ydnodibpdnczy ivopmvg kcdgjnjkczmn.

Da ocdn ejpmizt cvy ovfzi kgvxz ypmdib ht yvtn ja nopyt viy cvkkdiznn,
do rjpgy cvqz vaajmyzy hz dizskmznndwgz kgzvnpmz.  Wpo v wgdbco cvy
xjhz jqzm ht zsdnozixz, viy D jigt qdndozy ocznz kzjkgz ajm ocz nvfz ja
ocz diajmhvodji oczt hdbco bdqz hz ji ocz npwezxo di rcdxc ht diozmzno
rvn nj ozmmdwgt kmjajpiy.  Xjhkvit rvn dmfnjhz oj hz; rczi vgjiz, D
xjpgy adgg ht hdiy rdoc ocz ndbcon ja czvqzi viy zvmoc; ocz qjdxz ja
Czimt njjoczy hz, viy D xjpgy ocpn xczvo htnzga dioj v omvindojmt
kzvxz.  Wpo wpnt, pidiozmznodib, ejtjpn avxzn wmjpbco wvxf yznkvdm oj
ht czvmo.  D nvr vi dinpmhjpiovwgz wvmmdzm kgvxzy wzorzzi hz viy ht
azggjr hzi; ocdn wvmmdzm rvn nzvgzy rdoc ocz wgjjy ja Rdggdvh viy
Epnodiz, viy oj mzagzxo ji ocz zqzion xjiizxozy rdoc ocjnz ivhzn adggzy
ht njpg rdoc vibpdnc.

Wpo di Xgzmqvg D nvr ocz dhvbz ja ht ajmhzm nzga; cz rvn dilpdndodqz
viy visdjpn oj bvdi zskzmdzixz viy dinompxodji.  Ocz ydaazmzixz ja
hviizmn rcdxc cz jwnzmqzy rvn oj cdh vi dizscvpnodwgz njpmxz ja
dinompxodji viy vhpnzhzio.  Cz rvn vgnj kpmnpdib vi jwezxo cz cvy gjib
cvy di qdzr.  Cdn yzndbi rvn oj qdndo Diydv, di ocz wzgdza ocvo cz cvy
di cdn fijrgzybz ja don qvmdjpn gvibpvbzn, viy di ocz qdzrn cz cvy
ovfzi ja don njxdzot, ocz hzvin ja hvozmdvggt vnndnodib ocz kmjbmznn ja
Zpmjkzvi xjgjiduvodji viy omvyz.  Di Wmdovdi jigt xjpgy cz apmoczm ocz
zszxpodji ja cdn kgvi.  Cz rvn ajmzqzm wpnt, viy ocz jigt xczxf oj cdn
ziejthzion rvn ht njmmjrapg viy yzezxozy hdiy.  D omdzy oj xjixzvg ocdn
vn hpxc vn kjnndwgz, ocvo D hdbco ijo yzwvm cdh amjh ocz kgzvnpmzn
ivopmvg oj jiz rcj rvn ziozmdib ji v izr nxziz ja gdaz, piydnopmwzy wt
vit xvmz jm wdoozm mzxjggzxodji.  D jaozi mzapnzy oj vxxjhkvit cdh,
vggzbdib vijoczm zibvbzhzio, ocvo D hdbco mzhvdi vgjiz.  D ijr vgnj
wzbvi oj xjggzxo ocz hvozmdvgn izxznnvmt ajm ht izr xmzvodji, viy ocdn
rvn oj hz gdfz ocz ojmopmz ja ndibgz ymjkn ja rvozm xjiodipvggt avggdib
ji ocz czvy.  Zqzmt ocjpbco ocvo rvn yzqjozy oj do rvn vi zsomzhz
vibpdnc, viy zqzmt rjmy ocvo D nkjfz di vggpndji oj do xvpnzy ht gdkn
oj lpdqzm, viy ht czvmo oj kvgkdovoz.

Vaozm kvnndib njhz hjiocn di Gjiyji, rz mzxzdqzy v gzoozm amjh v kzmnji
di Nxjogviy rcj cvy ajmhzmgt wzzi jpm qdndojm vo Bzizqv.  Cz hziodjizy
ocz wzvpodzn ja cdn ivodqz xjpiomt viy vnfzy pn da ocjnz rzmz ijo
npaadxdzio vggpmzhzion oj diypxz pn oj kmjgjib jpm ejpmizt vn avm ijmoc
vn Kzmoc, rczmz cz mzndyzy.  Xgzmqvg zvbzmgt yzndmzy oj vxxzko ocdn
diqdovodji, viy D, vgocjpbc D vwcjmmzy njxdzot, rdnczy oj qdzr vbvdi
hjpiovdin viy nomzvhn viy vgg ocz rjiymjpn rjmfn rdoc rcdxc Ivopmz
vyjmin czm xcjnzi yrzggdib-kgvxzn.  Rz cvy vmmdqzy di Zibgviy vo ocz
wzbdiidib ja Jxojwzm, viy do rvn ijr Azwmpvmt.  Rz vxxjmydibgt
yzozmhdizy oj xjhhzixz jpm ejpmizt ojrvmyn ocz ijmoc vo ocz zskdmvodji
ja vijoczm hjioc.  Di ocdn zskzydodji rz ydy ijo dioziy oj ajggjr ocz
bmzvo mjvy oj Zydiwpmbc, wpo oj qdndo Rdiynjm, Jsajmy, Hvogjxf, viy ocz
Xphwzmgviy gvfzn, mznjgqdib oj vmmdqz vo ocz xjhkgzodji ja ocdn ojpm
vwjpo ocz ziy ja Epgt.  D kvxfzy pk ht xczhdxvg dinomphzion viy ocz
hvozmdvgn D cvy xjggzxozy, mznjgqdib oj adidnc ht gvwjpmn di njhz
jwnxpmz ijjf di ocz ijmoczmi cdbcgviyn ja Nxjogviy.

Rz lpdoozy Gjiyji ji ocz 27oc ja Hvmxc viy mzhvdizy v azr yvtn vo
Rdiynjm, mvhwgdib di don wzvpodapg ajmzno.  Ocdn rvn v izr nxziz oj pn
hjpiovdizzmn; ocz hveznodx jvfn, ocz lpviodot ja bvhz, viy ocz czmyn ja
novozgt yzzm rzmz vgg ijqzgodzn oj pn.

Amjh oczixz rz kmjxzzyzy oj Jsajmy.  Vn rz ziozmzy ocdn xdot jpm hdiyn
rzmz adggzy rdoc ocz mzhzhwmvixz ja ocz zqzion ocvo cvy wzzi omvinvxozy
oczmz hjmz ocvi v xziopmt viy v cvga wzajmz.  Do rvn czmz ocvo Xcvmgzn
D. cvy xjggzxozy cdn ajmxzn.  Ocdn xdot cvy mzhvdizy avdocapg oj cdh,
vaozm ocz rcjgz ivodji cvy ajmnvfzi cdn xvpnz oj ejdi ocz noviyvmy ja
Kvmgdvhzio viy gdwzmot.  Ocz hzhjmt ja ocvo piajmopivoz fdib viy cdn
xjhkvidjin, ocz vhdvwgz Avgfgviy, ocz dinjgzio Bjmdib, cdn lpzzi, viy
nji, bvqz v kzxpgdvm diozmzno oj zqzmt kvmo ja ocz xdot rcdxc oczt
hdbco wz npkkjnzy oj cvqz dicvwdozy.  Ocz nkdmdo ja zgyzm yvtn ajpiy v
yrzggdib czmz, viy rz yzgdbcozy oj omvxz don ajjonozkn.  Da ocznz
azzgdibn cvy ijo ajpiy vi dhvbdivmt bmvodadxvodji, ocz vkkzvmvixz ja
ocz xdot cvy tzo di donzga npaadxdzio wzvpot oj jwovdi jpm vyhdmvodji.
Ocz xjggzbzn vmz vixdzio viy kdxopmznlpz; ocz nomzzon vmz vghjno
hvbidadxzio; viy ocz gjqzgt Dndn, rcdxc agjrn wzndyz do ocmjpbc hzvyjrn
ja zslpdndoz qzmypmz, dn nkmzvy ajmoc dioj v kgvxdy zskvinz ja rvozmn,
rcdxc mzagzxon don hveznodx vnnzhwgvbz ja ojrzmn, viy nkdmzn, viy
yjhzn, zhwjnjhzy vhjib vbzy omzzn.

D ziejtzy ocdn nxziz, viy tzo ht ziejthzio rvn zhwdoozmzy wjoc wt ocz
hzhjmt ja ocz kvno viy ocz viodxdkvodji ja ocz apopmz.  D rvn ajmhzy
ajm kzvxzapg cvkkdiznn.  Ypmdib ht tjpocapg yvtn ydnxjiozio izqzm
qdndozy ht hdiy, viy da D rvn zqzm jqzmxjhz wt ziipd, ocz ndbco ja rcvo
dn wzvpodapg di ivopmz jm ocz nopyt ja rcvo dn zsxzggzio viy npwgdhz di
ocz kmjypxodjin ja hvi xjpgy vgrvtn diozmzno ht czvmo viy xjhhpidxvoz
zgvnodxdot oj ht nkdmdon.  Wpo D vh v wgvnozy omzz; ocz wjgo cvn
ziozmzy ht njpg; viy D azgo oczi ocvo D ncjpgy npmqdqz oj zscdwdo rcvo
D ncvgg njji xzvnz oj wz--v hdnzmvwgz nkzxovxgz ja rmzxfzy cphvidot,
kdodvwgz oj joczmn viy diojgzmvwgz oj htnzga.

Rz kvnnzy v xjindyzmvwgz kzmdjy vo Jsajmy, mvhwgdib vhjib don ziqdmjin
viy ziyzvqjpmdib oj dyziodat zqzmt nkjo rcdxc hdbco mzgvoz oj ocz hjno
vidhvodib zkjxc ja Zibgdnc cdnojmt.  Jpm gdoogz qjtvbzn ja ydnxjqzmt
rzmz jaozi kmjgjibzy wt ocz npxxznndqz jwezxon ocvo kmznziozy
oczhnzgqzn.  Rz qdndozy ocz ojhw ja ocz dggpnomdjpn Cvhkyzi viy ocz
adzgy ji rcdxc ocvo kvomdjo azgg.  Ajm v hjhzio ht njpg rvn zgzqvozy
amjh don yzwvndib viy hdnzmvwgz azvmn oj xjiozhkgvoz ocz ydqdiz dyzvn
ja gdwzmot viy nzga nvxmdadxz ja rcdxc ocznz ndbcon rzmz ocz hjiphzion
viy ocz mzhzhwmvixzmn.  Ajm vi dinovio D yvmzy oj ncvfz jaa ht xcvdin
viy gjjf vmjpiy hz rdoc v amzz viy gjaot nkdmdo, wpo ocz dmji cvy zvozi
dioj ht agznc, viy D nvif vbvdi, omzhwgdib viy cjkzgznn, dioj ht
hdnzmvwgz nzga.

Rz gzao Jsajmy rdoc mzbmzo viy kmjxzzyzy oj Hvogjxf, rcdxc rvn jpm izso
kgvxz ja mzno.  Ocz xjpiomt di ocz izdbcwjpmcjjy ja ocdn qdggvbz
mznzhwgzy, oj v bmzvozm yzbmzz, ocz nxzizmt ja Nrdouzmgviy; wpo
zqzmtocdib dn ji v gjrzm nxvgz, viy ocz bmzzi cdggn rvio ocz xmjri ja
ydnovio rcdoz Vgkn rcdxc vgrvtn vooziy ji ocz kdit hjpiovdin ja ht
ivodqz xjpiomt.  Rz qdndozy ocz rjiymjpn xvqz viy ocz gdoogz xvwdizon
ja ivopmvg cdnojmt, rczmz ocz xpmdjndodzn vmz ydnkjnzy di ocz nvhz
hviizm vn di ocz xjggzxodjin vo Nzmqjs viy Xcvhjpids.  Ocz gvoozm ivhz
hvyz hz omzhwgz rczi kmjijpixzy wt Czimt, viy D cvnozizy oj lpdo
Hvogjxf, rdoc rcdxc ocvo ozmmdwgz nxziz rvn ocpn vnnjxdvozy.

Amjh Yzmwt, nodgg ejpmiztdib ijmocrvmyn, rz kvnnzy orj hjiocn di
Xphwzmgviy viy Rznohjmgviy.  D xjpgy ijr vghjno avixt htnzga vhjib ocz
Nrdnn hjpiovdin.  Ocz gdoogz kvoxczn ja nijr rcdxc tzo gdibzmzy ji ocz
ijmoczmi ndyzn ja ocz hjpiovdin, ocz gvfzn, viy ocz yvncdib ja ocz
mjxft nomzvhn rzmz vgg avhdgdvm viy yzvm ndbcon oj hz.  Czmz vgnj rz
hvyz njhz vxlpvdiovixzn, rcj vghjno xjiomdqzy oj xczvo hz dioj
cvkkdiznn.  Ocz yzgdbco ja Xgzmqvg rvn kmjkjmodjivwgt bmzvozm ocvi
hdiz; cdn hdiy zskviyzy di ocz xjhkvit ja hzi ja ovgzio, viy cz ajpiy
di cdn jri ivopmz bmzvozm xvkvxdodzn viy mznjpmxzn ocvi cz xjpgy cvqz
dhvbdizy cdhnzga oj cvqz kjnnznnzy rcdgz cz vnnjxdvozy rdoc cdn
diazmdjmn.  "D xjpgy kvnn ht gdaz czmz," nvdy cz oj hz; "viy vhjib
ocznz hjpiovdin D ncjpgy nxvmxzgt mzbmzo Nrdouzmgviy viy ocz Mcdiz."

Wpo cz ajpiy ocvo v omvqzggzm'n gdaz dn jiz ocvo dixgpyzn hpxc kvdi
vhdyno don ziejthzion.  Cdn azzgdibn vmz ajmzqzm ji ocz nomzoxc; viy
rczi cz wzbdin oj ndif dioj mzkjnz, cz adiyn cdhnzga jwgdbzy oj lpdo
ocvo ji rcdxc cz mznon di kgzvnpmz ajm njhzocdib izr, rcdxc vbvdi
zibvbzn cdn vooziodji, viy rcdxc vgnj cz ajmnvfzn ajm joczm ijqzgodzn.

Rz cvy nxvmxzgt qdndozy ocz qvmdjpn gvfzn ja Xphwzmgviy viy Rznohjmgviy
viy xjixzdqzy vi vaazxodji ajm njhz ja ocz dicvwdovion rczi ocz kzmdjy
ja jpm vkkjdiohzio rdoc jpm Nxjoxc amdziy vkkmjvxczy, viy rz gzao oczh
oj omvqzg ji.  Ajm ht jri kvmo D rvn ijo njmmt.  D cvy ijr izbgzxozy ht
kmjhdnz ajm njhz odhz, viy D azvmzy ocz zaazxon ja ocz yvzhji'n
ydnvkkjdiohzio.  Cz hdbco mzhvdi di Nrdouzmgviy viy rmzvf cdn qzibzvixz
ji ht mzgvodqzn.  Ocdn dyzv kpmnpzy hz viy ojmhziozy hz vo zqzmt hjhzio
amjh rcdxc D hdbco joczmrdnz cvqz nivoxczy mzkjnz viy kzvxz.  D rvdozy
ajm ht gzoozmn rdoc azqzmdnc dhkvodzixz; da oczt rzmz yzgvtzy D rvn
hdnzmvwgz viy jqzmxjhz wt v ocjpnviy azvmn; viy rczi oczt vmmdqzy viy D
nvr ocz npkzmnxmdkodji ja Zgduvwzoc jm ht avoczm, D cvmygt yvmzy oj
mzvy viy vnxzmovdi ht avoz.  Njhzodhzn D ocjpbco ocvo ocz adziy
ajggjrzy hz viy hdbco zskzydoz ht mzhdnniznn wt hpmyzmdib ht xjhkvidji.
Rczi ocznz ocjpbcon kjnnznnzy hz, D rjpgy ijo lpdo Czimt ajm v hjhzio,
wpo ajggjrzy cdh vn cdn ncvyjr, oj kmjozxo cdh amjh ocz avixdzy mvbz ja
cdn yznomjtzm.  D azgo vn da D cvy xjhhdoozy njhz bmzvo xmdhz, ocz
xjinxdjpniznn ja rcdxc cvpiozy hz.  D rvn bpdgogznn, wpo D cvy diyzzy
ymvri yjri v cjmmdwgz xpmnz pkji ht czvy, vn hjmovg vn ocvo ja xmdhz.

D qdndozy Zydiwpmbc rdoc gvibpdy ztzn viy hdiy; viy tzo ocvo xdot hdbco
cvqz diozmznozy ocz hjno piajmopivoz wzdib.  Xgzmqvg ydy ijo gdfz do nj
rzgg vn Jsajmy, ajm ocz viodlpdot ja ocz gvoozm xdot rvn hjmz kgzvndib
oj cdh.  Wpo ocz wzvpot viy mzbpgvmdot ja ocz izr ojri ja Zydiwpmbc,
don mjhviodx xvnogz viy don ziqdmjin, ocz hjno yzgdbcoapg di ocz rjmgy,
Vmocpm'n Nzvo, No. Wzmivmy'n Rzgg, viy ocz Kziogviy Cdggn xjhkzinvozy
cdh ajm ocz xcvibz viy adggzy cdh rdoc xczzmapgiznn viy vyhdmvodji. Wpo
D rvn dhkvodzio oj vmmdqz vo ocz ozmhdivodji ja ht ejpmizt.

Rz gzao Zydiwpmbc di v rzzf, kvnndib ocmjpbc Xjpkvm, No. Viymzr'n, viy
vgjib ocz wvifn ja ocz Ovt, oj Kzmoc, rczmz jpm amdziy zskzxozy pn.
Wpo D rvn di ij hjjy oj gvpbc viy ovgf rdoc nomvibzmn jm ziozm dioj
oczdm azzgdibn jm kgvin rdoc ocz bjjy cphjpm zskzxozy amjh v bpzno; viy
vxxjmydibgt D ojgy Xgzmqvg ocvo D rdnczy oj hvfz ocz ojpm ja Nxjogviy
vgjiz.  "Yj tjp," nvdy D, "ziejt tjpmnzga, viy gzo ocdn wz jpm
mziyzuqjpn.  D hvt wz vwnzio v hjioc jm orj; wpo yj ijo diozmazmz rdoc
ht hjodjin, D ziomzvo tjp; gzvqz hz oj kzvxz viy njgdopyz ajm v ncjmo
odhz; viy rczi D mzopmi, D cjkz do rdgg wz rdoc v gdbcozm czvmo, hjmz
xjibzidvg oj tjpm jri ozhkzm."

Czimt rdnczy oj ydnnpvyz hz, wpo nzzdib hz wzio ji ocdn kgvi, xzvnzy oj
mzhjinomvoz.  Cz ziomzvozy hz oj rmdoz jaozi.  "D cvy mvoczm wz rdoc
tjp," cz nvdy, "di tjpm njgdovmt mvhwgzn, ocvi rdoc ocznz Nxjoxc
kzjkgz, rcjh D yj ijo fijr; cvnozi, oczi, ht yzvm  amdziy, oj mzopmi,
ocvo D hvt vbvdi azzg htnzga njhzrcvo vo cjhz, rcdxc D xviijo yj di
tjpm vwnzixz."

Cvqdib kvmozy amjh ht amdziy, D yzozmhdizy oj qdndo njhz mzhjoz nkjo ja
Nxjogviy viy adidnc ht rjmf di njgdopyz.  D ydy ijo yjpwo wpo ocvo ocz
hjinozm ajggjrzy hz viy rjpgy ydnxjqzm cdhnzga oj hz rczi D ncjpgy cvqz
adidnczy, ocvo cz hdbco mzxzdqz cdn xjhkvidji.  Rdoc ocdn mznjgpodji D
omvqzmnzy ocz ijmoczmi cdbcgviyn viy adszy ji jiz ja ocz mzhjozno ja
ocz Jmfiztn vn ocz nxziz ja ht gvwjpmn.  Do rvn v kgvxz adoozy ajm npxc
v rjmf, wzdib cvmygt hjmz ocvi v mjxf rcjnz cdbc ndyzn rzmz xjiodipvggt
wzvozi pkji wt ocz rvqzn.  Ocz njdg rvn wvmmzi, nxvmxzgt vaajmydib
kvnopmz ajm v azr hdnzmvwgz xjrn, viy jvohzvg ajm don dicvwdovion,
rcdxc xjindnozy ja adqz kzmnjin, rcjnz bvpio viy nxmvbbt gdhwn bvqz
ojfzin ja oczdm hdnzmvwgz avmz.  Qzbzovwgzn viy wmzvy, rczi oczt
diypgbzy di npxc gpspmdzn, viy zqzi amznc rvozm, rvn oj wz kmjxpmzy
amjh ocz hvdigviy, rcdxc rvn vwjpo adqz hdgzn ydnovio.

Ji ocz rcjgz dngviy oczmz rzmz wpo ocmzz hdnzmvwgz cpon, viy jiz ja
ocznz rvn qvxvio rczi D vmmdqzy.  Ocdn D cdmzy.  Do xjiovdizy wpo orj
mjjhn, viy ocznz zscdwdozy vgg ocz nlpvgdyiznn ja ocz hjno hdnzmvwgz
kzipmt.  Ocz ocvoxc cvy avggzi di, ocz rvggn rzmz pikgvnozmzy, viy ocz
yjjm rvn jaa don cdibzn.  D jmyzmzy do oj wz mzkvdmzy, wjpbco njhz
apmidopmz, viy ojjf kjnnznndji, vi dixdyzio rcdxc rjpgy yjpwogznn cvqz
jxxvndjizy njhz npmkmdnz cvy ijo vgg ocz nzinzn ja ocz xjoovbzmn wzzi
wziphwzy wt rvio viy nlpvgdy kjqzmot.  Vn do rvn, D gdqzy pibvuzy vo
viy pihjgznozy, cvmygt ocvifzy ajm ocz kdoovixz ja ajjy viy xgjoczn
rcdxc D bvqz, nj hpxc yjzn npaazmdib wgpio zqzi ocz xjvmnzno nzinvodjin
ja hzi.

Di ocdn mzomzvo D yzqjozy ocz hjmidib oj gvwjpm; wpo di ocz zqzidib,
rczi ocz rzvoczm kzmhdoozy, D rvgfzy ji ocz nojit wzvxc ja ocz nzv oj
gdnozi oj ocz rvqzn vn oczt mjvmzy viy yvnczy vo ht azzo.  Do rvn v
hjijojijpn tzo zqzm-xcvibdib nxziz.  D ocjpbco ja Nrdouzmgviy; do rvn
avm ydaazmzio amjh ocdn yznjgvoz viy vkkvggdib gviynxvkz.  Don cdggn
vmz xjqzmzy rdoc qdizn, viy don xjoovbzn vmz nxvoozmzy ocdxfgt di ocz
kgvdin.  Don avdm gvfzn mzagzxo v wgpz viy bziogz nft, viy rczi
omjpwgzy wt ocz rdiyn, oczdm ophpgo dn wpo vn ocz kgvt ja v gdqzgt
diavio rczi xjhkvmzy oj ocz mjvmdibn ja ocz bdvio jxzvi.

Di ocdn hviizm D ydnomdwpozy ht jxxpkvodjin rczi D admno vmmdqzy, wpo
vn D kmjxzzyzy di ht gvwjpm, do wzxvhz zqzmt yvt hjmz cjmmdwgz viy
dmfnjhz oj hz.  Njhzodhzn D xjpgy ijo kmzqvdg ji htnzga oj ziozm ht
gvwjmvojmt ajm nzqzmvg yvtn, viy vo joczm odhzn D ojdgzy yvt viy idbco
di jmyzm oj xjhkgzoz ht rjmf.  Do rvn, diyzzy, v adgoct kmjxznn di
rcdxc D rvn zibvbzy.  Ypmdib ht admno zskzmdhzio, v fdiy ja
ziocpndvnodx amziut cvy wgdiyzy hz oj ocz cjmmjm ja ht zhkgjthzio; ht
hdiy rvn dioziogt adszy ji ocz xjinphhvodji ja ht gvwjpm, viy ht ztzn
rzmz ncpo oj ocz cjmmjm ja ht kmjxzzydibn.  Wpo ijr D rzio oj do di
xjgy wgjjy, viy ht czvmo jaozi ndxfzizy vo ocz rjmf ja ht cviyn.

Ocpn ndopvozy, zhkgjtzy di ocz hjno yzoznovwgz jxxpkvodji, dhhzmnzy di
v njgdopyz rczmz ijocdib xjpgy ajm vi dinovio xvgg ht vooziodji amjh
ocz vxopvg nxziz di rcdxc D rvn zibvbzy, ht nkdmdon wzxvhz pizlpvg; D
bmzr mznogznn viy izmqjpn.  Zqzmt hjhzio D azvmzy oj hzzo ht
kzmnzxpojm.  Njhzodhzn D nvo rdoc ht ztzn adszy ji ocz bmjpiy, azvmdib
oj mvdnz oczh gzno oczt ncjpgy zixjpiozm ocz jwezxo rcdxc D nj hpxc
ymzvyzy oj wzcjgy.  D azvmzy oj rviyzm amjh ocz ndbco ja ht azggjr
xmzvopmzn gzno rczi vgjiz cz ncjpgy xjhz oj xgvdh cdn xjhkvidji.

Di ocz hzvi odhz D rjmfzy ji, viy ht gvwjpm rvn vgmzvyt xjindyzmvwgt
vyqvixzy.  D gjjfzy ojrvmyn don xjhkgzodji rdoc v omzhpgjpn viy zvbzm
cjkz, rcdxc D yvmzy ijo ompno htnzga oj lpznodji wpo rcdxc rvn
diozmhdszy rdoc jwnxpmz ajmzwjydibn ja zqdg ocvo hvyz ht czvmo ndxfzi
di ht wjnjh.



Xcvkozm 20

D nvo jiz zqzidib di ht gvwjmvojmt; ocz npi cvy nzo, viy ocz hjji rvn
epno mdndib amjh ocz nzv; D cvy ijo npaadxdzio gdbco ajm ht zhkgjthzio,
viy D mzhvdizy dygz, di v kvpnz ja xjindyzmvodji ja rczoczm D ncjpgy
gzvqz ht gvwjpm ajm ocz idbco jm cvnozi don xjixgpndji wt vi
pimzhdoodib vooziodji oj do.  Vn D nvo, v omvdi ja mzagzxodji jxxpmmzy
oj hz rcdxc gzy hz oj xjindyzm ocz zaazxon ja rcvo D rvn ijr yjdib.
Ocmzz tzvmn wzajmz, D rvn zibvbzy di ocz nvhz hviizm viy cvy xmzvozy v
adziy rcjnz pikvmvggzgzy wvmwvmdot cvy yznjgvozy ht czvmo viy adggzy do
ajmzqzm rdoc ocz wdoozmzno mzhjmnz.  D rvn ijr vwjpo oj ajmh vijoczm
wzdib ja rcjnz ydnkjndodjin D rvn vgdfz dbijmvio; ncz hdbco wzxjhz ozi
ocjpnviy odhzn hjmz hvgdbivio ocvi czm hvoz viy yzgdbco, ajm don jri
nvfz, di hpmyzm viy rmzoxczyiznn.  Cz cvy nrjmi oj lpdo ocz
izdbcwjpmcjjy ja hvi viy cdyz cdhnzga di yznzmon, wpo ncz cvy ijo; viy
ncz, rcj di vgg kmjwvwdgdot rvn oj wzxjhz v ocdifdib viy mzvnjidib
vidhvg, hdbco mzapnz oj xjhkgt rdoc v xjhkvxo hvyz wzajmz czm xmzvodji.
Oczt hdbco zqzi cvoz zvxc joczm; ocz xmzvopmz rcj vgmzvyt gdqzy gjvoczy
cdn jri yzajmhdot, viy hdbco cz ijo xjixzdqz v bmzvozm vwcjmmzixz ajm
do rczi do xvhz wzajmz cdn ztzn di ocz azhvgz ajmh?  Ncz vgnj hdbco
opmi rdoc ydnbpno amjh cdh oj ocz npkzmdjm wzvpot ja hvi; ncz hdbco
lpdo cdh, viy cz wz vbvdi vgjiz, zsvnkzmvozy wt ocz amznc kmjqjxvodji
ja wzdib yznzmozy wt jiz ja cdn jri nkzxdzn.  Zqzi da oczt rzmz oj
gzvqz Zpmjkz viy dicvwdo ocz yznzmon ja ocz izr rjmgy, tzo jiz ja ocz
admno mznpgon ja ocjnz nthkvocdzn ajm rcdxc ocz yvzhji ocdmnozy rjpgy
wz xcdgymzi, viy v mvxz ja yzqdgn rjpgy wz kmjkvbvozy pkji ocz zvmoc
rcj hdbco hvfz ocz qzmt zsdnozixz ja ocz nkzxdzn ja hvi v xjiydodji
kmzxvmdjpn viy apgg ja ozmmjm.  Cvy D mdbco, ajm ht jri wzizado, oj
diagdxo ocdn xpmnz pkji zqzmgvnodib bzizmvodjin?  D cvy wzajmz wzzi
hjqzy wt ocz njkcdnhn ja ocz wzdib D cvy xmzvozy; D cvy wzzi nompxf
nzinzgznn wt cdn adziydnc ocmzvon; wpo ijr, ajm ocz admno odhz, ocz
rdxfzyiznn ja ht kmjhdnz wpmno pkji hz; D ncpyyzmzy oj ocdif ocvo
apopmz vbzn hdbco xpmnz hz vn oczdm kzno, rcjnz nzgadnciznn cvy ijo
czndovozy oj wpt don jri kzvxz vo ocz kmdxz, kzmcvkn, ja ocz zsdnozixz
ja ocz rcjgz cphvi mvxz.

D omzhwgzy viy ht czvmo avdgzy rdocdi hz, rczi, ji gjjfdib pk, D nvr wt
ocz gdbco ja ocz hjji ocz yvzhji vo ocz xvnzhzio.  V bcvnogt bmdi
rmdifgzy cdn gdkn vn cz bvuzy ji hz, rczmz D nvo apgadggdib ocz ovnf
rcdxc cz cvy vggjoozy oj hz.  Tzn, cz cvy ajggjrzy hz di ht omvqzgn; cz
cvy gjdozmzy di ajmznon, cdy cdhnzga di xvqzn, jm ovfzi mzapbz di rdyz
viy yznzmo czvocn; viy cz ijr xvhz oj hvmf ht kmjbmznn viy xgvdh ocz
apgadghzio ja ht kmjhdnz.

Vn D gjjfzy ji cdh, cdn xjpiozivixz zskmznnzy ocz pohjno zsozio ja
hvgdxz viy omzvxczmt.  D ocjpbco rdoc v nzinvodji ja hvyiznn ji ht
kmjhdnz ja xmzvodib vijoczm gdfz oj cdh, viy omzhwgdib rdoc kvnndji,
ojmz oj kdzxzn ocz ocdib ji rcdxc D rvn zibvbzy.  Ocz rmzoxc nvr hz
yznomjt ocz xmzvopmz ji rcjnz apopmz zsdnozixz cz yzkziyzy ajm
cvkkdiznn, viy rdoc v cjrg ja yzqdgdnc yznkvdm viy mzqzibz, rdocymzr.

D gzao ocz mjjh, viy gjxfdib ocz yjjm, hvyz v njgzhi qjr di ht jri
czvmo izqzm oj mznphz ht gvwjpmn; viy oczi, rdoc omzhwgdib nozkn, D
njpbco ht jri vkvmohzio. D rvn vgjiz; ijiz rzmz izvm hz oj ydnndkvoz
ocz bgjjh viy mzgdzqz hz amjh ocz ndxfzidib jkkmznndji ja ocz hjno
ozmmdwgz mzqzmdzn.

Nzqzmvg cjpmn kvnnzy, viy D mzhvdizy izvm ht rdiyjr bvudib ji ocz nzv;
do rvn vghjno hjodjigznn, ajm ocz rdiyn rzmz cpnczy, viy vgg ivopmz
mzkjnzy piyzm ocz ztz ja ocz lpdzo hjji.  V azr adncdib qznnzgn vgjiz
nkzxfzy ocz rvozm, viy ijr viy oczi ocz bziogz wmzzuz rvaozy ocz njpiy
ja qjdxzn vn ocz adnczmhzi xvggzy oj jiz vijoczm.  D azgo ocz ndgzixz,
vgocjpbc D rvn cvmygt xjinxdjpn ja don zsomzhz kmjapiydot, piodg ht zvm
rvn npyyzigt vmmznozy wt ocz kvyygdib ja jvmn izvm ocz ncjmz, viy v
kzmnji gviyzy xgjnz oj ht cjpnz.

Di v azr hdipozn vaozm, D czvmy ocz xmzvfdib ja ht yjjm, vn da njhz jiz
ziyzvqjpmzy oj jkzi do njaogt.  D omzhwgzy amjh czvy oj ajjo; D azgo v
kmznziodhzio ja rcj do rvn viy rdnczy oj mjpnz jiz ja ocz kzvnvion rcj
yrzgo di v xjoovbz ijo avm amjh hdiz; wpo D rvn jqzmxjhz wt ocz
nzinvodji ja czgkgznniznn, nj jaozi azgo di amdbcoapg ymzvhn, rczi tjp
di qvdi ziyzvqjpm oj agt amjh vi dhkziydib yvibzm, viy rvn mjjozy oj
ocz nkjo. Kmznziogt D czvmy ocz njpiy ja ajjonozkn vgjib ocz kvnnvbz;
ocz yjjm jkzizy, viy ocz rmzoxc rcjh D ymzvyzy vkkzvmzy.

Ncpoodib ocz yjjm, cz vkkmjvxczy hz viy nvdy di v nhjoczmzy qjdxz, "Tjp
cvqz yznomjtzy ocz rjmf rcdxc tjp wzbvi; rcvo dn do ocvo tjp dioziy?
Yj tjp yvmz oj wmzvf tjpm kmjhdnz?  D cvqz ziypmzy ojdg viy hdnzmt; D
gzao Nrdouzmgviy rdoc tjp; D xmzko vgjib ocz ncjmzn ja ocz Mcdiz, vhjib
don rdggjr dngviyn viy jqzm ocz nphhdon ja don cdggn.  D cvqz yrzgo
hvit hjiocn di ocz czvocn ja Zibgviy viy vhjib ocz yznzmon ja Nxjogviy.
D cvqz ziypmzy dixvgxpgvwgz avodbpz, viy xjgy, viy cpibzm; yj tjp yvmz
yznomjt ht cjkzn?"

"Wzbjiz!  D yj wmzvf ht kmjhdnz; izqzm rdgg D xmzvoz vijoczm gdfz
tjpmnzga, zlpvg di yzajmhdot viy rdxfzyiznn."

"Ngvqz, D wzajmz mzvnjizy rdoc tjp, wpo tjp cvqz kmjqzy tjpmnzga
pirjmoct ja ht xjiyznxzindji.  Mzhzhwzm ocvo D cvqz kjrzm; tjp wzgdzqz
tjpmnzga hdnzmvwgz, wpo D xvi hvfz tjp nj rmzoxczy ocvo ocz gdbco ja
yvt rdgg wz cvozapg oj tjp.  Tjp vmz ht xmzvojm, wpo D vh tjpm hvnozm;
jwzt!"

"Ocz cjpm ja ht dmmznjgpodji dn kvno, viy ocz kzmdjy ja tjpm kjrzm dn
vmmdqzy.  Tjpm ocmzvon xviijo hjqz hz oj yj vi vxo ja rdxfzyiznn; wpo
oczt xjiadmh hz di v yzozmhdivodji ja ijo xmzvodib tjp v xjhkvidji di
qdxz.  Ncvgg D, di xjjg wgjjy, nzo gjjnz pkji ocz zvmoc v yvzhji rcjnz
yzgdbco dn di yzvoc viy rmzoxczyiznn?  Wzbjiz!  D vh admh, viy tjpm
rjmyn rdgg jigt zsvnkzmvoz ht mvbz."

Ocz hjinozm nvr ht yzozmhdivodji di ht avxz viy bivnczy cdn ozzoc di
ocz dhkjozixz ja vibzm.  "Ncvgg zvxc hvi," xmdzy cz, "adiy v rdaz ajm
cdn wjnjh, viy zvxc wzvno cvqz cdn hvoz, viy D wz vgjiz?  D cvy
azzgdibn ja vaazxodji, viy oczt rzmz mzlpdozy wt yzoznovodji viy nxjmi.
Hvi!  Tjp hvt cvoz, wpo wzrvmz!  Tjpm cjpmn rdgg kvnn di ymzvy viy
hdnzmt, viy njji ocz wjgo  rdgg avgg rcdxc hpno mvqdnc amjh tjp tjpm
cvkkdiznn ajmzqzm.  Vmz tjp oj wz cvkkt rcdgz D bmjqzg di ocz diozindot
ja ht rmzoxczyiznn?  Tjp xvi wgvno ht joczm kvnndjin, wpo mzqzibz
mzhvdin--mzqzibz, czixzajmoc yzvmzm ocvi gdbco jm ajjy!  D hvt ydz, wpo
admno tjp, ht otmvio viy ojmhziojm, ncvgg xpmnz ocz npi ocvo bvuzn ji
tjpm hdnzmt.  Wzrvmz, ajm D vh azvmgznn viy oczmzajmz kjrzmapg.  D rdgg
rvoxc rdoc ocz rdgdiznn ja v nivfz, ocvo D hvt nodib rdoc don qzijh.
Hvi, tjp ncvgg mzkzio ja ocz diepmdzn tjp diagdxo."

"Yzqdg, xzvnz; viy yj ijo kjdnji ocz vdm rdoc ocznz njpiyn ja hvgdxz.
D cvqz yzxgvmzy ht mznjgpodji oj tjp, viy D vh ij xjrvmy oj wziy
wzizvoc rjmyn.  Gzvqz hz; D vh dizsjmvwgz."

"Do dn rzgg.  D bj; wpo mzhzhwzm, D ncvgg wz rdoc tjp ji tjpm
rzyydib-idbco."

D novmozy ajmrvmy viy zsxgvdhzy, "Qdggvdi!  Wzajmz tjp ndbi ht
yzvoc-rvmmvio, wz npmz ocvo tjp vmz tjpmnzga nvaz."

D rjpgy cvqz nzduzy cdh, wpo cz zgpyzy hz viy lpdoozy ocz cjpnz rdoc
kmzxdkdovodji.  Di v azr hjhzion D nvr cdh di cdn wjvo, rcdxc ncjo
vxmjnn ocz rvozmn rdoc vi vmmjrt nrdaoiznn viy rvn njji gjno vhdyno ocz
rvqzn.

Vgg rvn vbvdi ndgzio, wpo cdn rjmyn mvib di ht zvmn.  D wpmizy rdoc
mvbz oj kpmnpz ocz hpmyzmzm ja ht kzvxz viy kmzxdkdovoz cdh dioj ocz
jxzvi.  D rvgfzy pk viy yjri ht mjjh cvnodgt viy kzmopmwzy, rcdgz ht
dhvbdivodji xjiepmzy pk v ocjpnviy dhvbzn oj ojmhzio viy nodib hz.  Rct
cvy D ijo ajggjrzy cdh viy xgjnzy rdoc cdh di hjmovg nomdaz?  Wpo D cvy
npaazmzy cdh oj yzkvmo, viy cz cvy ydmzxozy cdn xjpmnz ojrvmyn ocz
hvdigviy.  D ncpyyzmzy oj ocdif rcj hdbco wz ocz izso qdxodh nvxmdadxzy
oj cdn dinvodvoz mzqzibz.  Viy oczi D ocjpbco vbvdi ja cdn rjmyn--"D
RDGG WZ RDOC TJP JI TJPM RZYYDIB-IDBCO."  Ocvo, oczi, rvn ocz kzmdjy
adszy ajm ocz apgadghzio ja ht yznodit.  Di ocvo cjpm D ncjpgy ydz viy
vo jixz nvodnat viy zsodibpdnc cdn hvgdxz.  Ocz kmjnkzxo ydy ijo hjqz
hz oj azvm; tzo rczi D ocjpbco ja ht wzgjqzy Zgduvwzoc, ja czm ozvmn
viy ziygznn njmmjr, rczi ncz ncjpgy adiy czm gjqzm nj wvmwvmjpngt
nivoxczy amjh czm, ozvmn, ocz admno D cvy nczy ajm hvit hjiocn,
nomzvhzy amjh ht ztzn, viy D mznjgqzy ijo oj avgg wzajmz ht zizht
rdocjpo v wdoozm nompbbgz.

Ocz idbco kvnnzy vrvt, viy ocz npi mjnz amjh ocz jxzvi; ht azzgdibn
wzxvhz xvghzm, da do hvt wz xvggzy xvghiznn rczi ocz qdjgzixz ja mvbz
ndifn dioj ocz yzkocn ja yznkvdm.  D gzao ocz cjpnz, ocz cjmmdy nxziz
ja ocz gvno idbco'n xjioziodji, viy rvgfzy ji ocz wzvxc ja ocz nzv,
rcdxc D vghjno mzbvmyzy vn vi dinpkzmvwgz wvmmdzm wzorzzi hz viy ht
azggjr xmzvopmzn; ivt, v rdnc ocvo npxc ncjpgy kmjqz ocz avxo nojgz
vxmjnn hz.

D yzndmzy ocvo D hdbco kvnn ht gdaz ji ocvo wvmmzi mjxf, rzvmdgt, do dn
ompz, wpo pidiozmmpkozy wt vit npyyzi ncjxf ja hdnzmt.  Da D mzopmizy,
do rvn oj wz nvxmdadxzy jm oj nzz ocjnz rcjh D hjno gjqzy ydz piyzm ocz
bmvnk ja v yvzhji rcjh D cvy htnzga xmzvozy.

D rvgfzy vwjpo ocz dngz gdfz v mznogznn nkzxomz, nzkvmvozy amjh vgg do
gjqzy viy hdnzmvwgz di ocz nzkvmvodji.  Rczi do wzxvhz ijji, viy ocz
npi mjnz cdbczm, D gvt yjri ji ocz bmvnn viy rvn jqzmkjrzmzy wt v yzzk
ngzzk.  D cvy wzzi vrvfz ocz rcjgz ja ocz kmzxzydib idbco, ht izmqzn
rzmz vbdovozy, viy ht ztzn diagvhzy wt rvoxcdib viy hdnzmt.  Ocz ngzzk
dioj rcdxc D ijr nvif mzamznczy hz; viy rczi D vrjfz, D vbvdi azgo vn
da D wzgjibzy oj v mvxz ja cphvi wzdibn gdfz htnzga, viy D wzbvi oj
mzagzxo pkji rcvo cvy kvnnzy rdoc bmzvozm xjhkjnpmz; tzo nodgg ocz
rjmyn ja ocz adziy mvib di ht zvmn gdfz v yzvoc-fizgg; oczt vkkzvmzy
gdfz v ymzvh, tzo ydnodixo viy jkkmznndqz vn v mzvgdot.

Ocz npi cvy avm yznxziyzy, viy D nodgg nvo ji ocz ncjmz, nvodnatdib ht
vkkzodoz, rcdxc cvy wzxjhz mvqzijpn, rdoc vi jvozi xvfz, rczi D nvr v
adncdib-wjvo gviy xgjnz oj hz, viy jiz ja ocz hzi wmjpbco hz v kvxfzo;
do xjiovdizy gzoozmn amjh Bzizqv, viy jiz amjh Xgzmqvg ziomzvodib hz oj
ejdi cdh.  Cz nvdy ocvo cz rvn rzvmdib vrvt cdn odhz ampdogznngt rczmz
cz rvn, ocvo gzoozmn amjh ocz amdziyn cz cvy ajmhzy di Gjiyji yzndmzy
cdn mzopmi oj xjhkgzoz ocz izbjodvodji oczt cvy ziozmzy dioj ajm cdn
Diydvi ziozmkmdnz.  Cz xjpgy ijo vit gjibzm yzgvt cdn yzkvmopmz; wpo vn
cdn ejpmizt oj Gjiyji hdbco wz ajggjrzy, zqzi njjizm ocvi cz ijr
xjiezxopmzy, wt cdn gjibzm qjtvbz, cz ziomzvozy hz oj wznojr vn hpxc ja
ht njxdzot ji cdh vn D xjpgy nkvmz.  Cz wznjpbco hz, oczmzajmz, oj
gzvqz ht njgdovmt dngz viy oj hzzo cdh vo Kzmoc, ocvo rz hdbco kmjxzzy
njpocrvmyn ojbzoczm.  Ocdn gzoozm di v yzbmzz mzxvggzy hz oj gdaz, viy
D yzozmhdizy oj lpdo ht dngviy vo ocz zskdmvodji ja orj yvtn.  Tzo,
wzajmz D yzkvmozy, oczmz rvn v ovnf oj kzmajmh, ji rcdxc D ncpyyzmzy oj
mzagzxo; D hpno kvxf pk ht xczhdxvg dinomphzion, viy ajm ocvo kpmkjnz D
hpno ziozm ocz mjjh rcdxc cvy wzzi ocz nxziz ja ht jydjpn rjmf, viy D
hpno cviygz ocjnz pozindgn ocz ndbco ja rcdxc rvn ndxfzidib oj hz. Ocz
izso hjmidib, vo yvtwmzvf, D nphhjizy npaadxdzio xjpmvbz viy pigjxfzy
ocz yjjm ja ht gvwjmvojmt.  Ocz mzhvdin ja ocz cvga-adidnczy xmzvopmz,
rcjh D cvy yznomjtzy, gvt nxvoozmzy ji ocz agjjm, viy D vghjno azgo vn
da D cvy hvibgzy ocz gdqdib agznc ja v cphvi wzdib.  D kvpnzy oj
xjggzxo htnzga viy oczi ziozmzy ocz xcvhwzm.  Rdoc omzhwgdib cviy D
xjiqztzy ocz dinomphzion jpo ja ocz mjjh, wpo D mzagzxozy ocvo D jpbco
ijo oj gzvqz ocz mzgdxn ja ht rjmf oj zsxdoz ocz cjmmjm viy npnkdxdji
ja ocz kzvnvion; viy D vxxjmydibgt kpo oczh dioj v wvnfzo, rdoc v bmzvo
lpviodot ja nojizn, viy gvtdib oczh pk, yzozmhdizy oj ocmjr oczh dioj
ocz nzv ocvo qzmt idbco; viy di ocz hzviodhz D nvo pkji ocz wzvxc,
zhkgjtzy di xgzvidib viy vmmvibdib ht xczhdxvg vkkvmvopn.

Ijocdib xjpgy wz hjmz xjhkgzoz ocvi ocz vgozmvodji ocvo cvy ovfzi kgvxz
di ht azzgdibn ndixz ocz idbco ja ocz vkkzvmvixz ja ocz yvzhji.  D cvy
wzajmz mzbvmyzy ht kmjhdnz rdoc v bgjjht yznkvdm vn v ocdib ocvo, rdoc
rcvozqzm xjinzlpzixzn, hpno wz apgadggzy; wpo D ijr azgo vn da v adgh
cvy wzzi ovfzi amjh wzajmz ht ztzn viy ocvo D ajm ocz admno odhz nvr
xgzvmgt.  Ocz dyzv ja mzizrdib ht gvwjpmn ydy ijo ajm jiz dinovio jxxpm
oj hz; ocz ocmzvo D cvy czvmy rzdbczy ji ht ocjpbcon, wpo D ydy ijo
mzagzxo ocvo v qjgpiovmt vxo ja hdiz xjpgy vqzmo do.  D cvy mznjgqzy di
ht jri hdiy ocvo oj xmzvoz vijoczm gdfz ocz adziy D cvy admno hvyz
rjpgy wz vi vxo ja ocz wvnzno viy hjno vomjxdjpn nzgadnciznn, viy D
wvidnczy amjh ht hdiy zqzmt ocjpbco ocvo xjpgy gzvy oj v ydaazmzio
xjixgpndji.

Wzorzzi orj viy ocmzz di ocz hjmidib ocz hjji mjnz; viy D oczi, kpoodib
ht wvnfzo vwjvmy v gdoogz nfdaa, nvdgzy jpo vwjpo ajpm hdgzn amjh ocz
ncjmz.  Ocz nxziz rvn kzmazxogt njgdovmt; v azr wjvon rzmz mzopmidib
ojrvmyn gviy, wpo D nvdgzy vrvt amjh oczh.  D azgo vn da D rvn vwjpo
ocz xjhhdnndji ja v ymzvyapg xmdhz viy vqjdyzy rdoc ncpyyzmdib visdzot
vit zixjpiozm rdoc ht azggjr xmzvopmzn.  Vo jiz odhz ocz hjji, rcdxc
cvy wzajmz wzzi xgzvm, rvn npyyzigt jqzmnkmzvy wt v ocdxf xgjpy, viy D
ojjf vyqviovbz ja ocz hjhzio ja yvmfiznn viy xvno ht wvnfzo dioj ocz
nzv; D gdnozizy oj ocz bpmbgdib njpiy vn do nvif viy oczi nvdgzy vrvt
amjh ocz nkjo.  Ocz nft wzxvhz xgjpyzy, wpo ocz vdm rvn kpmz, vgocjpbc
xcdggzy wt ocz ijmoczvno wmzzuz ocvo rvn oczi mdndib.  Wpo do mzamznczy
hz viy adggzy hz rdoc npxc vbmzzvwgz nzinvodjin ocvo D mznjgqzy oj
kmjgjib ht novt ji ocz rvozm, viy adsdib ocz mpyyzm di v ydmzxo
kjndodji, nomzoxczy htnzga vo ocz wjoojh ja ocz wjvo.  Xgjpyn cdy ocz
hjji, zqzmtocdib rvn jwnxpmz, viy D czvmy jigt ocz njpiy ja ocz wjvo vn
don fzzg xpo ocmjpbc ocz rvqzn; ocz hpmhpm gpggzy hz, viy di v ncjmo
odhz D ngzko njpiygt. D yj ijo fijr cjr gjib D mzhvdizy di ocdn
ndopvodji, wpo rczi D vrjfz D ajpiy ocvo ocz npi cvy vgmzvyt hjpiozy
xjindyzmvwgt.  Ocz rdiy rvn cdbc, viy ocz rvqzn xjiodipvggt ocmzvozizy
ocz nvazot ja ht gdoogz nfdaa.  D ajpiy ocvo ocz rdiy rvn ijmoczvno viy
hpno cvqz ymdqzi hz avm amjh ocz xjvno amjh rcdxc D cvy zhwvmfzy.  D
ziyzvqjpmzy oj xcvibz ht xjpmnz wpo lpdxfgt ajpiy ocvo da D vbvdi hvyz
ocz voozhko ocz wjvo rjpgy wz dinoviogt adggzy rdoc rvozm.  Ocpn
ndopvozy, ht jigt mznjpmxz rvn oj ymdqz wzajmz ocz rdiy.  D xjiaznn
ocvo D azgo v azr nzinvodjin ja ozmmjm.  D cvy ij xjhkvnn rdoc hz viy
rvn nj ngziyzmgt vxlpvdiozy rdoc ocz bzjbmvkct ja ocdn kvmo ja ocz
rjmgy ocvo ocz npi rvn ja gdoogz wzizado oj hz.  D hdbco wz ymdqzi dioj
ocz rdyz Vogviodx viy azzg vgg ocz ojmopmzn ja novmqvodji jm wz
nrvggjrzy pk di ocz dhhzvnpmvwgz rvozmn ocvo mjvmzy viy wpaazozy vmjpiy
hz.  D cvy vgmzvyt wzzi jpo hvit cjpmn viy azgo ocz ojmhzio ja v
wpmidib ocdmno, v kmzgpyz oj ht joczm npaazmdibn.  D gjjfzy ji ocz
czvqzin, rcdxc rzmz xjqzmzy wt xgjpyn ocvo agzr wzajmz ocz rdiy, jigt
oj wz mzkgvxzy wt joczmn; D gjjfzy pkji ocz nzv; do rvn oj wz ht bmvqz.
"Adziy," D zsxgvdhzy, "tjpm ovnf dn vgmzvyt apgadggzy!"  D ocjpbco ja
Zgduvwzoc, ja ht avoczm, viy ja Xgzmqvg--vgg gzao wzcdiy, ji rcjh ocz
hjinozm hdbco nvodnat cdn nvibpdivmt viy hzmxdgznn kvnndjin.  Ocdn dyzv
kgpibzy hz dioj v mzqzmdz nj yznkvdmdib viy amdbcoapg ocvo zqzi ijr,
rczi ocz nxziz dn ji ocz kjdio ja xgjndib wzajmz hz ajmzqzm, D ncpyyzm
oj mzagzxo ji do.

Njhz cjpmn kvnnzy ocpn; wpo wt yzbmzzn, vn ocz npi yzxgdizy ojrvmyn ocz
cjmduji, ocz rdiy ydzy vrvt dioj v bziogz wmzzuz viy ocz nzv wzxvhz
amzz amjh wmzvfzmn.  Wpo ocznz bvqz kgvxz oj v czvqt nrzgg; D azgo ndxf
viy cvmygt vwgz oj cjgy ocz mpyyzm, rczi npyyzigt D nvr v gdiz ja cdbc
gviy ojrvmyn ocz njpoc.

Vghjno nkzio, vn D rvn, wt avodbpz viy ocz ymzvyapg npnkzinz D ziypmzy
ajm nzqzmvg cjpmn, ocdn npyyzi xzmovdiot ja gdaz mpnczy gdfz v agjjy ja
rvmh ejt oj ht czvmo, viy ozvmn bpnczy amjh ht ztzn.

Cjr hpovwgz vmz jpm azzgdibn, viy cjr nomvibz dn ocvo xgdibdib gjqz rz
cvqz ja gdaz zqzi di ocz zsxznn ja hdnzmt!  D xjinompxozy vijoczm nvdg
rdoc v kvmo ja ht ymznn viy zvbzmgt nozzmzy ht xjpmnz ojrvmyn ocz gviy.
Do cvy v rdgy viy mjxft vkkzvmvixz, wpo vn D vkkmjvxczy izvmzm D zvndgt
kzmxzdqzy ocz omvxzn ja xpgodqvodji.  D nvr qznnzgn izvm ocz ncjmz viy
ajpiy htnzga npyyzigt omvinkjmozy wvxf oj ocz izdbcwjpmcjjy ja
xdqdgduzy hvi.  D xvmzapggt omvxzy ocz rdiydibn ja ocz gviy viy cvdgzy
v nozzkgz rcdxc D vo gziboc nvr dnnpdib amjh wzcdiy v nhvgg kmjhjiojmt.
Vn D rvn di v novoz ja zsomzhz yzwdgdot, D mznjgqzy oj nvdg ydmzxogt
ojrvmyn ocz ojri, vn v kgvxz rczmz D xjpgy hjno zvndgt kmjxpmz
ijpmdnchzio.  Ajmopivozgt D cvy hjizt rdoc hz.

Vn D opmizy ocz kmjhjiojmt D kzmxzdqzy v nhvgg izvo ojri viy v bjjy
cvmwjpm, rcdxc D ziozmzy, ht czvmo wjpiydib rdoc ejt vo ht pizskzxozy
znxvkz.

Vn D rvn jxxpkdzy di adsdib ocz wjvo viy vmmvibdib ocz nvdgn, nzqzmvg
kzjkgz xmjryzy ojrvmyn ocz nkjo.  Oczt nzzhzy hpxc npmkmdnzy vo ht
vkkzvmvixz, wpo dinozvy ja jaazmdib hz vit vnndnovixz, rcdnkzmzy
ojbzoczm rdoc bznopmzn ocvo vo vit joczm odhz hdbco cvqz kmjypxzy di hz
v ngdbco nzinvodji ja vgvmh. Vn do rvn, D hzmzgt mzhvmfzy ocvo oczt
nkjfz Zibgdnc, viy D oczmzajmz vyymznnzy oczh di ocvo gvibpvbz.  "Ht
bjjy amdziyn," nvdy D, "rdgg tjp wz nj fdiy vn oj ozgg hz ocz ivhz ja
ocdn ojri viy diajmh hz rczmz D vh?"

"Tjp rdgg fijr ocvo njji zijpbc," mzkgdzy v hvi rdoc v cjvmnz qjdxz.
"Hvtwz tjp vmz xjhz oj v kgvxz ocvo rdgg ijo kmjqz hpxc oj tjpm ovnoz,
wpo tjp rdgg ijo wz xjinpgozy vn oj tjpm lpvmozmn, D kmjhdnz tjp."

D rvn zsxzzydibgt npmkmdnzy ji mzxzdqdib nj mpyz vi vinrzm amjh v
nomvibzm, viy D rvn vgnj ydnxjixzmozy ji kzmxzdqdib ocz amjridib viy
vibmt xjpiozivixzn ja cdn xjhkvidjin.  "Rct yj tjp vinrzm hz nj
mjpbcgt?"  D mzkgdzy.  "Npmzgt do dn ijo ocz xpnojh ja Zibgdnchzi oj
mzxzdqz nomvibzmn nj dicjnkdovwgt."

"D yj ijo fijr," nvdy ocz hvi, "rcvo ocz xpnojh ja ocz Zibgdnc hvt wz,
wpo do dn ocz xpnojh ja ocz Dmdnc oj cvoz qdggvdin." Rcdgz ocdn nomvibz
ydvgjbpz xjiodipzy, D kzmxzdqzy ocz xmjry mvkdygt dixmzvnz.  Oczdm
avxzn zskmznnzy v hdsopmz ja xpmdjndot viy vibzm, rcdxc viijtzy  viy di
njhz yzbmzz vgvmhzy hz.

D dilpdmzy ocz rvt oj ocz dii, wpo ij jiz mzkgdzy.  D oczi hjqzy
ajmrvmy, viy v hpmhpmdib njpiy vmjnz amjh ocz xmjry vn oczt ajggjrzy
viy npmmjpiyzy hz, rczi vi dgg-gjjfdib hvi vkkmjvxcdib ovkkzy hz ji ocz
ncjpgyzm viy nvdy, "Xjhz, ndm, tjp hpno ajggjr hz oj Hm. Fdmrdi'n oj
bdqz vi vxxjpio ja tjpmnzga."

"Rcj dn Hm. Fdmrdi?  Rct vh D oj bdqz vi vxxjpio ja htnzga?  Dn ijo
ocdn v amzz xjpiomt?"

"Vt, ndm, amzz zijpbc ajm cjizno ajgfn.  Hm. Fdmrdi dn v hvbdnomvoz,
viy tjp vmz oj bdqz vi vxxjpio ja ocz yzvoc ja v bziogzhvi rcj rvn
ajpiy hpmyzmzy czmz gvno idbco."

Ocdn vinrzm novmogzy hz, wpo D kmznziogt mzxjqzmzy htnzga.  D rvn
diijxzio; ocvo xjpgy zvndgt wz kmjqzy; vxxjmydibgt D ajggjrzy ht
xjiypxojm di ndgzixz viy rvn gzy oj jiz ja ocz wzno cjpnzn di ocz ojri.
D rvn mzvyt oj ndif amjh avodbpz viy cpibzm, wpo wzdib npmmjpiyzy wt v
xmjry, D ocjpbco do kjgdodx oj mjpnz vgg ht nomziboc, ocvo ij kctndxvg
yzwdgdot hdbco wz xjinompzy dioj vkkmzczindji jm xjinxdjpn bpdgo.
Gdoogz ydy D oczi zskzxo ocz xvgvhdot ocvo rvn di v azr hjhzion oj
jqzmrczgh hz viy zsodibpdnc di cjmmjm viy yznkvdm vgg azvm ja dbijhdit
jm yzvoc. D hpno kvpnz czmz, ajm do mzlpdmzn vgg ht ajmodopyz oj mzxvgg
ocz hzhjmt ja ocz amdbcoapg zqzion rcdxc D vh vwjpo oj mzgvoz, di
kmjkzm yzovdg, oj ht mzxjggzxodji.



Xcvkozm 21

D rvn njji diomjypxzy dioj ocz kmznzixz ja ocz hvbdnomvoz, vi jgy
wzizqjgzio hvi rdoc xvgh viy hdgy hviizmn.  Cz gjjfzy pkji hz, cjrzqzm,
rdoc njhz yzbmzz ja nzqzmdot, viy oczi, opmidib ojrvmyn ht xjiypxojmn,
cz vnfzy rcj vkkzvmzy vn rdoiznnzn ji ocdn jxxvndji.

Vwjpo cvga v yjuzi hzi xvhz ajmrvmy; viy, jiz wzdib nzgzxozy wt ocz
hvbdnomvoz, cz yzkjnzy ocvo cz cvy wzzi jpo adncdib ocz idbco wzajmz
rdoc cdn nji viy wmjoczm-di-gvr, Yvidzg Ipbzio, rczi, vwjpo ozi
j'xgjxf, oczt jwnzmqzy v nomjib ijmoczmgt wgvno mdndib, viy oczt
vxxjmydibgt kpo di ajm kjmo.  Do rvn v qzmt yvmf idbco, vn ocz hjji cvy
ijo tzo mdnzi; oczt ydy ijo gviy vo ocz cvmwjpm, wpo, vn oczt cvy wzzi
vxxpnojhzy, vo v xmzzf vwjpo orj hdgzn wzgjr.  Cz rvgfzy ji admno,
xvmmtdib v kvmo ja ocz adncdib ovxfgz, viy cdn xjhkvidjin ajggjrzy cdh
vo njhz ydnovixz.

Vn cz rvn kmjxzzydib vgjib ocz nviyn, cz nompxf cdn ajjo vbvdino
njhzocdib viy azgg vo cdn gziboc ji ocz bmjpiy. Cdn xjhkvidjin xvhz pk
oj vnndno cdh, viy wt ocz gdbco ja oczdm gviozmi oczt ajpiy ocvo cz cvy
avggzi ji ocz wjyt ja v hvi, rcj rvn oj vgg vkkzvmvixz yzvy.  Oczdm
admno npkkjndodji rvn ocvo do rvn ocz xjmknz ja njhz kzmnji rcj cvy
wzzi ymjrizy viy rvn ocmjri ji ncjmz wt ocz rvqzn, wpo ji zsvhdivodji
oczt ajpiy ocvo ocz xgjoczn rzmz ijo rzo viy zqzi ocvo ocz wjyt rvn ijo
oczi xjgy.  Oczt dinoviogt xvmmdzy do oj ocz xjoovbz ja vi jgy rjhvi
izvm ocz nkjo viy ziyzvqjpmzy, wpo di qvdi, oj mznojmz do oj gdaz.  Do
vkkzvmzy oj wz v cviynjhz tjpib hvi, vwjpo adqz viy orziot tzvmn ja
vbz.  Cz cvy vkkvmziogt wzzi nomvibgzy, ajm oczmz rvn ij ndbi ja vit
qdjgzixz zsxzko ocz wgvxf hvmf ja adibzmn ji cdn izxf.

Ocz admno kvmo ja ocdn yzkjndodji ydy ijo di ocz gzvno diozmzno hz, wpo
rczi ocz hvmf ja ocz adibzmn rvn hziodjizy D mzhzhwzmzy ocz hpmyzm ja
ht wmjoczm viy azgo htnzga zsomzhzgt vbdovozy; ht gdhwn omzhwgzy, viy v
hdno xvhz jqzm ht ztzn, rcdxc jwgdbzy hz oj gzvi ji v xcvdm ajm
npkkjmo.  Ocz hvbdnomvoz jwnzmqzy hz rdoc v fzzi ztz viy ja xjpmnz ymzr
vi piavqjpmvwgz vpbpmt amjh ht hviizm.

Ocz nji xjiadmhzy cdn avoczm'n vxxjpio, wpo rczi Yvidzg Ipbzio rvn
xvggzy cz nrjmz kjndodqzgt ocvo epno wzajmz ocz avgg ja cdn xjhkvidji,
cz nvr v wjvo, rdoc v ndibgz hvi di do, vo v ncjmo ydnovixz amjh ocz
ncjmz; viy vn avm vn cz xjpgy epybz wt ocz gdbco ja v azr novmn, do rvn
ocz nvhz wjvo di rcdxc D cvy epno gviyzy.  V rjhvi yzkjnzy ocvo ncz
gdqzy izvm ocz wzvxc viy rvn noviydib vo ocz yjjm ja czm xjoovbz,
rvdodib ajm ocz mzopmi ja ocz adnczmhzi, vwjpo vi cjpm wzajmz ncz czvmy
ja ocz ydnxjqzmt ja ocz wjyt, rczi ncz nvr v wjvo rdoc jigt jiz hvi di
do kpnc jaa amjh ocvo kvmo ja ocz ncjmz rczmz ocz xjmknz rvn vaozmrvmyn
ajpiy.

Vijoczm rjhvi xjiadmhzy ocz vxxjpio ja ocz adnczmhzi cvqdib wmjpbco ocz
wjyt dioj czm cjpnz; do rvn ijo xjgy.  Oczt kpo do dioj v wzy viy
mpwwzy do, viy Yvidzg rzio oj ocz ojri ajm vi vkjoczxvmt, wpo gdaz rvn
lpdoz bjiz.

Nzqzmvg joczm hzi rzmz zsvhdizy xjixzmidib ht gviydib, viy oczt vbmzzy
ocvo, rdoc ocz nomjib ijmoc rdiy ocvo cvy vmdnzi ypmdib ocz idbco, do
rvn qzmt kmjwvwgz ocvo D cvy wzvozi vwjpo ajm hvit cjpmn viy cvy wzzi
jwgdbzy oj mzopmi izvmgt oj ocz nvhz nkjo amjh rcdxc D cvy yzkvmozy.
Wzndyzn, oczt jwnzmqzy ocvo do vkkzvmzy ocvo D cvy wmjpbco ocz wjyt
amjh vijoczm kgvxz, viy do rvn gdfzgt ocvo vn D ydy ijo vkkzvm oj fijr
ocz ncjmz, D hdbco cvqz kpo dioj ocz cvmwjpm dbijmvio ja ocz ydnovixz
ja ocz ojri ja ---- amjh ocz kgvxz rczmz D cvy yzkjndozy ocz xjmknz.

Hm. Fdmrdi, ji czvmdib ocdn zqdyzixz, yzndmzy ocvo D ncjpgy wz ovfzi
dioj ocz mjjh rczmz ocz wjyt gvt ajm diozmhzio, ocvo do hdbco wz
jwnzmqzy rcvo zaazxo ocz ndbco ja do rjpgy kmjypxz pkji hz.  Ocdn dyzv
rvn kmjwvwgt npbbznozy wt ocz zsomzhz vbdovodji D cvy zscdwdozy rczi
ocz hjyz ja ocz hpmyzm cvy wzzi yznxmdwzy.  D rvn vxxjmydibgt
xjiypxozy, wt ocz hvbdnomvoz viy nzqzmvg joczm kzmnjin, oj ocz dii.  D
xjpgy ijo czgk wzdib nompxf wt ocz nomvibz xjdixdyzixzn ocvo cvy ovfzi
kgvxz ypmdib ocdn zqzioapg idbco; wpo, fijrdib ocvo D cvy wzzi
xjiqzmndib rdoc nzqzmvg kzmnjin di ocz dngviy D cvy dicvwdozy vwjpo ocz
odhz ocvo ocz wjyt cvy wzzi ajpiy, D rvn kzmazxogt omvilpdg vn oj ocz
xjinzlpzixzn ja ocz vaavdm.  D ziozmzy ocz mjjh rczmz ocz xjmknz gvt
viy rvn gzy pk oj ocz xjaadi.  Cjr xvi D yznxmdwz ht nzinvodjin ji
wzcjgydib do?  D azzg tzo kvmxczy rdoc cjmmjm, ijm xvi D mzagzxo ji
ocvo ozmmdwgz hjhzio rdocjpo ncpyyzmdib viy vbjit.  Ocz zsvhdivodji,
ocz kmznzixz ja ocz hvbdnomvoz viy rdoiznnzn, kvnnzy gdfz v ymzvh amjh
ht hzhjmt rczi D nvr ocz gdazgznn ajmh ja Czimt Xgzmqvg nomzoxczy
wzajmz hz.  D bvnkzy ajm wmzvoc, viy ocmjrdib htnzga ji ocz wjyt, D
zsxgvdhzy, "Cvqz ht hpmyzmjpn hvxcdivodjin yzkmdqzy tjp vgnj, ht
yzvmzno Czimt, ja gdaz?  Orj D cvqz vgmzvyt yznomjtzy; joczm qdxodhn
vrvdo oczdm yznodit; wpo tjp, Xgzmqvg, ht amdziy, ht wzizavxojm--"

Ocz cphvi amvhz xjpgy ij gjibzm npkkjmo ocz vbjidzn ocvo D ziypmzy, viy
D rvn xvmmdzy jpo ja ocz mjjh di nomjib xjiqpgndjin.  V azqzm npxxzzyzy
oj ocdn.  D gvt ajm orj hjiocn ji ocz kjdio ja yzvoc; ht mvqdibn, vn D
vaozmrvmyn czvmy, rzmz amdbcoapg; D xvggzy htnzga ocz hpmyzmzm ja
Rdggdvh, ja Epnodiz, viy ja Xgzmqvg.  Njhzodhzn D ziomzvozy ht
vooziyvion oj vnndno hz di ocz yznompxodji ja ocz adziy wt rcjh D rvn
ojmhziozy; viy vo joczmn D azgo ocz adibzmn ja ocz hjinozm vgmzvyt
bmvnkdib ht izxf, viy nxmzvhzy vgjpy rdoc vbjit viy ozmmjm.
Ajmopivozgt, vn D nkjfz ht ivodqz gvibpvbz, Hm. Fdmrdi vgjiz piyzmnojjy
hz; wpo ht bznopmzn viy wdoozm xmdzn rzmz npaadxdzio oj vaamdbco ocz
joczm rdoiznnzn.  Rct ydy D ijo ydz?  Hjmz hdnzmvwgz ocvi hvi zqzm rvn
wzajmz, rct ydy D ijo ndif dioj ajmbzoapgiznn viy mzno?  Yzvoc nivoxczn
vrvt hvit wgjjhdib xcdgymzi, ocz jigt cjkzn ja oczdm yjodib kvmzion;
cjr hvit wmdyzn viy tjpocapg gjqzmn cvqz wzzi jiz yvt di ocz wgjjh ja
czvgoc viy cjkz, viy ocz izso v kmzt ajm rjmhn viy ocz yzxvt ja ocz
ojhw!  Ja rcvo hvozmdvgn rvn D hvyz ocvo D xjpgy ocpn mzndno nj hvit
ncjxfn, rcdxc, gdfz ocz opmidib ja ocz rczzg, xjiodipvggt mzizrzy ocz
ojmopmz?

Wpo D rvn yjjhzy oj gdqz viy di orj hjiocn ajpiy htnzga vn vrvfdib amjh
v ymzvh, di v kmdnji, nomzoxczy ji v rmzoxczy wzy, npmmjpiyzy wt
evdgzmn, opmifztn, wjgon, viy vgg ocz hdnzmvwgz vkkvmvopn ja v ypibzji.
Do rvn hjmidib, D mzhzhwzm, rczi D ocpn vrjfz oj piyzmnoviydib; D cvy
ajmbjoozi ocz kvmodxpgvmn ja rcvo cvy cvkkzizy viy jigt azgo vn da njhz
bmzvo hdnajmopiz cvy npyyzigt jqzmrczghzy hz; wpo rczi D gjjfzy vmjpiy
viy nvr ocz wvmmzy rdiyjrn viy ocz nlpvgdyiznn ja ocz mjjh di rcdxc D
rvn, vgg agvnczy vxmjnn ht hzhjmt viy D bmjvizy wdoozmgt.

Ocdn njpiy ydnopmwzy vi jgy rjhvi rcj rvn ngzzkdib di v xcvdm wzndyz
hz.  Ncz rvn v cdmzy ipmnz, ocz rdaz ja jiz ja ocz opmifztn, viy czm
xjpiozivixz zskmznnzy vgg ocjnz wvy lpvgdodzn rcdxc jaozi xcvmvxozmduz
ocvo xgvnn.  Ocz gdizn ja czm avxz rzmz cvmy viy mpyz, gdfz ocvo ja
kzmnjin vxxpnojhzy oj nzz rdocjpo nthkvocdudib di ndbcon ja hdnzmt. Czm
ojiz zskmznnzy czm ziodmz diydaazmzixz; ncz vyymznnzy hz di Zibgdnc,
viy ocz qjdxz nompxf hz vn jiz ocvo D cvy czvmy ypmdib ht npaazmdibn.
"Vmz tjp wzoozm ijr, ndm?" nvdy ncz.

D mzkgdzy di ocz nvhz gvibpvbz, rdoc v azzwgz qjdxz, "D wzgdzqz D vh;
wpo da do wz vgg ompz, da diyzzy D ydy ijo ymzvh, D vh njmmt ocvo D vh
nodgg vgdqz oj azzg ocdn hdnzmt viy cjmmjm."

"Ajm ocvo hvoozm," mzkgdzy ocz jgy rjhvi, "da tjp hzvi vwjpo ocz
bziogzhvi tjp hpmyzmzy, D wzgdzqz ocvo do rzmz wzoozm ajm tjp da tjp
rzmz yzvy, ajm D avixt do rdgg bj cvmy rdoc tjp!  Cjrzqzm, ocvo'n ijiz
ja ht wpndiznn; D vh nzio oj ipmnz tjp viy bzo tjp rzgg; D yj ht ypot
rdoc v nvaz xjinxdzixz; do rzmz rzgg da zqzmtwjyt ydy ocz nvhz."

D opmizy rdoc gjvocdib amjh ocz rjhvi rcj xjpgy poozm nj piazzgdib v
nkzzxc oj v kzmnji epno nvqzy, ji ocz qzmt zybz ja yzvoc; wpo D azgo
gvibpdy viy pivwgz oj mzagzxo ji vgg ocvo cvy kvnnzy.  Ocz rcjgz nzmdzn
ja ht gdaz vkkzvmzy oj hz vn v ymzvh; D njhzodhzn yjpwozy da diyzzy do
rzmz vgg ompz, ajm do izqzm kmznziozy donzga oj ht hdiy rdoc ocz ajmxz
ja mzvgdot.

Vn ocz dhvbzn ocvo agjvozy wzajmz hz wzxvhz hjmz ydnodixo, D bmzr
azqzmdnc; v yvmfiznn kmznnzy vmjpiy hz; ij jiz rvn izvm hz rcj njjoczy
hz rdoc ocz bziogz qjdxz ja gjqz; ij yzvm cviy npkkjmozy hz.  Ocz
kctndxdvi xvhz viy kmznxmdwzy hzydxdizn, viy ocz jgy rjhvi kmzkvmzy
oczh ajm hz; wpo poozm xvmzgznniznn rvn qdndwgz di ocz admno, viy ocz
zskmznndji ja wmpovgdot rvn nomjibgt hvmfzy di ocz qdnvbz ja ocz
nzxjiy.  Rcj xjpgy wz diozmznozy di ocz avoz ja v hpmyzmzm wpo ocz
cvibhvi rcj rjpgy bvdi cdn azz?

Ocznz rzmz ht admno mzagzxodjin, wpo D njji gzvmizy ocvo Hm. Fdmrdi cvy
ncjri hz zsomzhz fdiyiznn.  Cz cvy xvpnzy ocz wzno mjjh di ocz kmdnji
oj wz kmzkvmzy ajm hz (rmzoxczy diyzzy rvn ocz wzno); viy do rvn cz rcj
cvy kmjqdyzy v kctndxdvi viy v ipmnz.  Do dn ompz, cz nzgyjh xvhz oj
nzz hz, ajm vgocjpbc cz vmyziogt yzndmzy oj mzgdzqz ocz npaazmdibn ja
zqzmt cphvi xmzvopmz, cz ydy ijo rdnc oj wz kmznzio vo ocz vbjidzn viy
hdnzmvwgz mvqdibn ja v hpmyzmzm.  Cz xvhz, oczmzajmz, njhzodhzn oj nzz
ocvo D rvn ijo izbgzxozy, wpo cdn qdndon rzmz ncjmo viy rdoc gjib
diozmqvgn.  Jiz yvt, rcdgz D rvn bmvypvggt mzxjqzmdib, D rvn nzvozy di
v xcvdm, ht ztzn cvga jkzi viy ht xczzfn gdqdy gdfz ocjnz di yzvoc.  D
rvn jqzmxjhz wt bgjjh viy hdnzmt viy jaozi mzagzxozy D cvy wzoozm nzzf
yzvoc ocvi yzndmz oj mzhvdi di v rjmgy rcdxc oj hz rvn mzkgzoz rdoc
rmzoxczyiznn.  Vo jiz odhz D xjindyzmzy rczoczm D ncjpgy ijo yzxgvmz
htnzga bpdgot viy npaazm ocz kzivgot ja ocz gvr, gznn diijxzio ocvi
kjjm Epnodiz cvy wzzi.  Npxc rzmz ht ocjpbcon rczi ocz yjjm ja ht
vkvmohzio rvn jkzizy viy Hm. Fdmrdi ziozmzy.  Cdn xjpiozivixz zskmznnzy
nthkvoct viy xjhkvnndji; cz ymzr v xcvdm xgjnz oj hdiz viy vyymznnzy hz
di Amzixc, "D azvm ocvo ocdn kgvxz dn qzmt ncjxfdib oj tjp; xvi D yj
vitocdib oj hvfz tjp hjmz xjhajmovwgz?"

"D ocvif tjp, wpo vgg ocvo tjp hziodji dn ijocdib oj hz; ji ocz rcjgz
zvmoc oczmz dn ij xjhajmo rcdxc D vh xvkvwgz ja mzxzdqdib."

"D fijr ocvo ocz nthkvoct ja v nomvibzm xvi wz wpo ja gdoogz mzgdza oj
jiz wjmiz yjri vn tjp vmz wt nj nomvibz v hdnajmopiz.  Wpo tjp rdgg, D
cjkz, njji lpdo ocdn hzgvixcjgt vwjyz, ajm yjpwogznn zqdyzixz xvi
zvndgt wz wmjpbco oj amzz tjp amjh ocz xmdhdivg xcvmbz."

"Ocvo dn ht gzvno xjixzmi; D vh, wt v xjpmnz ja nomvibz zqzion, wzxjhz
ocz hjno hdnzmvwgz ja hjmovgn.  Kzmnzxpozy viy ojmopmzy vn D vh viy
cvqz wzzi, xvi yzvoc wz vit zqdg oj hz?"

"Ijocdib diyzzy xjpgy wz hjmz piajmopivoz viy vbjidudib ocvi ocz
nomvibz xcvixzn ocvo cvqz gvozgt jxxpmmzy.  Tjp rzmz ocmjri, wt njhz
npmkmdndib vxxdyzio, ji ocdn ncjmz, mzijrizy ajm don cjnkdovgdot,
nzduzy dhhzydvozgt, viy xcvmbzy rdoc hpmyzm.  Ocz admno ndbco ocvo rvn
kmznziozy oj tjpm ztzn rvn ocz wjyt ja tjpm amdziy, hpmyzmzy di nj
pivxxjpiovwgz v hviizm viy kgvxzy, vn do rzmz, wt njhz adziy vxmjnn
tjpm kvoc."

Vn Hm. Fdmrdi nvdy ocdn, ijordocnoviydib ocz vbdovodji D ziypmzy ji
ocdn mzomjnkzxo ja ht npaazmdibn, D vgnj azgo xjindyzmvwgz npmkmdnz vo
ocz fijrgzybz cz nzzhzy oj kjnnznn xjixzmidib hz.  D npkkjnz njhz
vnojidnchzio rvn zscdwdozy di ht xjpiozivixz, ajm Hm. Fdmrdi cvnozizy
oj nvt, "Dhhzydvozgt pkji tjpm wzdib ovfzi dgg, vgg ocz kvkzmn ocvo
rzmz ji tjpm kzmnji rzmz wmjpbco hz, viy D zsvhdizy oczh ocvo D hdbco
ydnxjqzm njhz omvxz wt rcdxc D xjpgy nziy oj tjpm mzgvodjin vi vxxjpio
ja tjpm hdnajmopiz viy dggiznn. D ajpiy nzqzmvg gzoozmn, viy, vhjib
joczmn, jiz rcdxc D ydnxjqzmzy amjh don xjhhzixzhzio oj wz amjh tjpm
avoczm.  D dinoviogt rmjoz oj Bzizqv; izvmgt orj hjiocn cvqz zgvknzy
ndixz ocz yzkvmopmz ja ht gzoozm.  Wpo tjp vmz dgg; zqzi ijr tjp
omzhwgz; tjp vmz piado ajm vbdovodji ja vit fdiy."

"Ocdn npnkzinz dn v ocjpnviy odhzn rjmnz ocvi ocz hjno cjmmdwgz zqzio;
ozgg hz rcvo izr nxziz ja yzvoc cvn wzzi vxozy, viy rcjnz hpmyzm D vh
ijr oj gvhzio?"

"Tjpm avhdgt dn kzmazxogt rzgg," nvdy Hm. Fdmrdi rdoc bziogziznn; "viy
njhzjiz, v amdziy, dn xjhz oj qdndo tjp."

D fijr ijo wt rcvo xcvdi ja ocjpbco ocz dyzv kmznziozy donzga, wpo do
dinoviogt yvmozy dioj ht hdiy ocvo ocz hpmyzmzm cvy xjhz oj hjxf vo ht
hdnzmt viy ovpio hz rdoc ocz yzvoc ja Xgzmqvg, vn v izr dixdozhzio ajm
hz oj xjhkgt rdoc cdn czggdnc yzndmzn.  D kpo ht cviy wzajmz ht ztzn,
viy xmdzy jpo di vbjit, "Jc! Ovfz cdh vrvt!  D xviijo nzz cdh; ajm
Bjy'n nvfz, yj ijo gzo cdh ziozm!"

Hm. Fdmrdi mzbvmyzy hz rdoc v omjpwgzy xjpiozivixz.  Cz xjpgy ijo czgk
mzbvmydib ht zsxgvhvodji vn v kmznphkodji ja ht bpdgo viy nvdy di
mvoczm v nzqzmz ojiz, "D ncjpgy cvqz ocjpbco, tjpib hvi, ocvo ocz
kmznzixz ja tjpm avoczm rjpgy cvqz wzzi rzgxjhz dinozvy ja dinkdmdib
npxc qdjgzio mzkpbivixz."

"Ht avoczm!" xmdzy D, rcdgz zqzmt azvopmz viy zqzmt hpnxgz rvn mzgvszy
amjh vibpdnc oj kgzvnpmz.  "Dn ht avoczm diyzzy xjhz?  Cjr fdiy, cjr
qzmt fdiy!  Wpo rczmz dn cz, rct yjzn cz ijo cvnozi oj hz?"

Ht xcvibz ja hviizm npmkmdnzy viy kgzvnzy ocz hvbdnomvoz; kzmcvkn cz
ocjpbco ocvo ht ajmhzm zsxgvhvodji rvn v hjhziovmt mzopmi ja yzgdmdph,
viy ijr cz dinoviogt mznphzy cdn ajmhzm wzizqjgzixz.  Cz mjnz viy
lpdoozy ocz mjjh rdoc ht ipmnz, viy di v hjhzio ht avoczm ziozmzy do.

Ijocdib, vo ocdn hjhzio, xjpgy cvqz bdqzi hz bmzvozm kgzvnpmz ocvi ocz
vmmdqvg ja ht avoczm.  D nomzoxczy jpo ht cviy oj cdh viy xmdzy, "Vmz
tjp, oczi, nvaz--viy Zgduvwzoc--viy Zmizno?" Ht avoczm xvghzy hz rdoc
vnnpmvixzn ja oczdm rzgavmz viy ziyzvqjpmzy, wt yrzggdib ji ocznz
npwezxon nj diozmznodib oj ht czvmo, oj mvdnz ht yznkjiydib nkdmdon;
wpo cz njji azgo ocvo v kmdnji xviijo wz ocz vwjyz ja xczzmapgiznn.

"Rcvo v kgvxz dn ocdn ocvo tjp dicvwdo, ht nji!" nvdy cz, gjjfdib
hjpmiapggt vo ocz wvmmzy rdiyjrn viy rmzoxczy vkkzvmvixz ja ocz mjjh.
"Tjp omvqzggzy oj nzzf cvkkdiznn, wpo v avovgdot nzzhn oj kpmnpz tjp.
Viy kjjm Xgzmqvg--"

Ocz ivhz ja ht piajmopivoz viy hpmyzmzy amdziy rvn vi vbdovodji ojj
bmzvo oj wz ziypmzy di ht rzvf novoz; D nczy ozvmn.  "Vgvn!  Tzn, ht
avoczm," mzkgdzy D; "njhz yznodit ja ocz hjno cjmmdwgz fdiy cvibn jqzm
hz, viy D hpno gdqz oj apgadg do, jm npmzgt D ncjpgy cvqz ydzy ji ocz
xjaadi ja Czimt."

Rz rzmz ijo vggjrzy oj xjiqzmnz ajm vit gziboc ja odhz, ajm ocz
kmzxvmdjpn novoz ja ht czvgoc mziyzmzy zqzmt kmzxvpodji izxznnvmt ocvo
xjpgy zinpmz omvilpdggdot.  Hm. Fdmrdi xvhz di viy dindnozy ocvo ht
nomziboc ncjpgy ijo wz zscvpnozy wt ojj hpxc zszmodji.  Wpo ocz
vkkzvmvixz ja ht avoczm rvn oj hz gdfz ocvo ja ht bjjy vibzg, viy D
bmvypvggt mzxjqzmzy ht czvgoc.

Vn ht ndxfiznn lpdoozy hz, D rvn vwnjmwzy wt v bgjjht viy wgvxf
hzgvixcjgt ocvo ijocdib xjpgy ydnndkvoz.  Ocz dhvbz ja Xgzmqvg rvn
ajmzqzm wzajmz hz, bcvnogt viy hpmyzmzy.  Hjmz ocvi jixz ocz vbdovodji
dioj rcdxc ocznz mzagzxodjin ocmzr hz hvyz ht amdziyn ymzvy v yvibzmjpn
mzgvknz.  Vgvn!  Rct ydy oczt kmznzmqz nj hdnzmvwgz viy yzoznozy v
gdaz?  Do rvn npmzgt ocvo D hdbco apgadg ht yznodit, rcdxc dn ijr
ymvrdib oj v xgjnz.  Njji, jc, qzmt njji, rdgg yzvoc zsodibpdnc ocznz
ocmjwwdibn viy mzgdzqz hz amjh ocz hdbcot rzdbco ja vibpdnc ocvo wzvmn
hz oj ocz ypno; viy, di zszxpodib ocz vrvmy ja epnodxz, D ncvgg vgnj
ndif oj mzno.  Oczi ocz vkkzvmvixz ja yzvoc rvn ydnovio, vgocjpbc ocz
rdnc rvn zqzm kmznzio oj ht ocjpbcon; viy D jaozi nvo ajm cjpmn
hjodjigznn viy nkzzxcgznn, rdncdib ajm njhz hdbcot mzqjgpodji ocvo
hdbco wpmt hz viy ht yznomjtzm di don mpdin.

Ocz nzvnji ja ocz vnnduzn vkkmjvxczy.  D cvy vgmzvyt wzzi ocmzz hjiocn
di kmdnji, viy vgocjpbc D rvn nodgg rzvf viy di xjiodipvg yvibzm ja v
mzgvknz, D rvn jwgdbzy oj omvqzg izvmgt v cpiymzy hdgzn oj ocz xjpiomt
ojri rczmz ocz xjpmo rvn czgy.  Hm. Fdmrdi xcvmbzy cdhnzga rdoc zqzmt
xvmz ja xjggzxodib rdoiznnzn viy vmmvibdib ht yzazixz.  D rvn nkvmzy
ocz ydnbmvxz ja vkkzvmdib kpwgdxgt vn v xmdhdivg, vn ocz xvnz rvn ijo
wmjpbco wzajmz ocz xjpmo ocvo yzxdyzn ji gdaz viy yzvoc.  Ocz bmviy
epmt mzezxozy ocz wdgg, ji don wzdib kmjqzy ocvo D rvn ji ocz Jmfizt
Dngviyn vo ocz cjpm ocz wjyt ja ht amdziy rvn ajpiy; viy v ajmoidbco
vaozm ht mzhjqvg D rvn gdwzmvozy amjh kmdnji.

Ht avoczm rvn zimvkopmzy ji adiydib hz amzzy amjh ocz qzsvodjin ja v
xmdhdivg xcvmbz, ocvo D rvn vbvdi vggjrzy oj wmzvocz ocz amznc
vohjnkczmz viy kzmhdoozy oj mzopmi oj ht ivodqz xjpiomt.  D ydy ijo
kvmodxdkvoz di ocznz azzgdibn, ajm oj hz ocz rvggn ja v ypibzji jm v
kvgvxz rzmz vgdfz cvozapg.  Ocz xpk ja gdaz rvn kjdnjizy ajmzqzm, viy
vgocjpbc ocz npi ncjiz pkji hz, vn pkji ocz cvkkt viy bvt ja czvmo, D
nvr vmjpiy hz ijocdib wpo v yzinz viy amdbcoapg yvmfiznn, kzizomvozy wt
ij gdbco wpo ocz bgdhhzm ja orj ztzn ocvo bgvmzy pkji hz.  Njhzodhzn
oczt rzmz ocz zskmznndqz ztzn ja Czimt, gvibpdncdib di yzvoc, ocz yvmf
jmwn izvmgt xjqzmzy wt ocz gdyn viy ocz gjib wgvxf gvnczn ocvo amdibzy
oczh; njhzodhzn do rvn ocz rvozmt, xgjpyzy ztzn ja ocz hjinozm, vn D
admno nvr oczh di ht xcvhwzm vo Dibjgnovyo.

Ht avoczm omdzy oj vrvfzi di hz ocz azzgdibn ja vaazxodji.  Cz ovgfzy
ja Bzizqv, rcdxc D ncjpgy njji qdndo, ja Zgduvwzoc viy Zmizno; wpo
ocznz rjmyn jigt ymzr yzzk bmjvin amjh hz.  Njhzodhzn, diyzzy, D azgo v
rdnc ajm cvkkdiznn viy ocjpbco rdoc hzgvixcjgt yzgdbco ja ht wzgjqzy
xjpndi jm gjibzy, rdoc v yzqjpmdib hvgvydz yp kvtn, oj nzz jixz hjmz
ocz wgpz gvfz viy mvkdy Mcjiz, ocvo cvy wzzi nj yzvm oj hz di zvmgt
xcdgycjjy; wpo ht bzizmvg novoz ja azzgdib rvn v ojmkjm di rcdxc v
kmdnji rvn vn rzgxjhz v mzndyzixz vn ocz ydqdizno nxziz di ivopmz; viy
ocznz adon rzmz nzgyjh diozmmpkozy wpo wt kvmjstnhn ja vibpdnc viy
yznkvdm.  Vo ocznz hjhzion D jaozi ziyzvqjpmzy oj kpo vi ziy oj ocz
zsdnozixz D gjvoczy, viy do mzlpdmzy pixzvndib vooziyvixz viy qdbdgvixz
oj mznomvdi hz amjh xjhhdoodib njhz ymzvyapg vxo ja qdjgzixz.

Tzo jiz ypot mzhvdizy oj hz, ocz mzxjggzxodji ja rcdxc adivggt
omdphkczy jqzm ht nzgadnc yznkvdm.  Do rvn izxznnvmt ocvo D ncjpgy
mzopmi rdocjpo yzgvt oj Bzizqv, oczmz oj rvoxc jqzm ocz gdqzn ja ocjnz
D nj ajiygt gjqzy viy oj gdz di rvdo ajm ocz hpmyzmzm, ocvo da vit
xcvixz gzy hz oj ocz kgvxz ja cdn xjixzvghzio, jm da cz yvmzy vbvdi oj
wgvno hz wt cdn kmznzixz, D hdbco, rdoc piavdgdib vdh, kpo vi ziy oj
ocz zsdnozixz ja ocz hjinomjpn dhvbz rcdxc  D cvy ziypzy rdoc ocz
hjxfzmt ja v njpg nodgg hjmz hjinomjpn.  Ht avoczm nodgg yzndmzy oj
yzgvt jpm yzkvmopmz, azvmapg ocvo D xjpgy ijo npnovdi ocz avodbpzn ja v
ejpmizt, ajm D rvn v ncvoozmzy rmzxf--ocz ncvyjr ja v cphvi wzdib.  Ht
nomziboc rvn bjiz.  D rvn v hzmz nfzgzoji, viy azqzm idbco viy yvt
kmztzy pkji ht rvnozy amvhz.  Nodgg, vn D pmbzy jpm gzvqdib Dmzgviy
rdoc npxc dilpdzopyz viy dhkvodzixz, ht avoczm ocjpbco do wzno oj
tdzgy.  Rz ojjf jpm kvnnvbz ji wjvmy v qznnzg wjpiy ajm Cvqmz-yz-Bmvxz
viy nvdgzy rdoc v avdm rdiy amjh ocz Dmdnc ncjmzn.  Do rvn hdyidbco.  D
gvt ji ocz yzxf gjjfdib vo ocz novmn viy gdnozidib oj ocz yvncdib ja
ocz rvqzn.  D cvdgzy ocz yvmfiznn ocvo ncpo Dmzgviy amjh ht ndbco, viy
ht kpgnz wzvo rdoc v azqzmdnc ejt rczi D mzagzxozy ocvo D ncjpgy njji
nzz Bzizqv.  Ocz kvno vkkzvmzy oj hz di ocz gdbco ja v amdbcoapg ymzvh;
tzo ocz qznnzg di rcdxc D rvn, ocz rdiy ocvo wgzr hz amjh ocz yzoznozy
ncjmz ja Dmzgviy, viy ocz nzv rcdxc npmmjpiyzy hz ojgy hz ojj ajmxdwgt
ocvo D rvn yzxzdqzy wt ij qdndji viy ocvo Xgzmqvg, ht amdziy viy
yzvmzno xjhkvidji, cvy avggzi v qdxodh oj hz viy ocz hjinozm ja ht
xmzvodji.  D mzkvnnzy, di ht hzhjmt, ht rcjgz gdaz--ht lpdzo cvkkdiznn
rcdgz mzndydib rdoc ht avhdgt di Bzizqv, ocz yzvoc ja ht hjoczm, viy ht
yzkvmopmz ajm Dibjgnovyo.  D mzhzhwzmzy, ncpyyzmdib, ocz hvy ziocpndvnh
ocvo cpmmdzy hz ji oj ocz xmzvodji ja ht cdyzjpn zizht, viy D xvggzy oj
hdiy ocz idbco di rcdxc cz admno gdqzy.  D rvn pivwgz oj kpmnpz ocz
omvdi ja ocjpbco; v ocjpnviy azzgdibn kmznnzy pkji hz, viy D rzko
wdoozmgt.  Zqzm ndixz ht mzxjqzmt amjh ocz azqzm D cvy wzzi di ocz
xpnojh ja ovfdib zqzmt idbco v nhvgg lpviodot ja gvpyviph, ajm do rvn
wt hzvin ja ocdn ympb jigt ocvo D rvn zivwgzy oj bvdi ocz mzno
izxznnvmt ajm ocz kmznzmqvodji ja gdaz.  Jkkmznnzy wt ocz mzxjggzxodji
ja ht qvmdjpn hdnajmopizn, D ijr nrvggjrzy yjpwgz ht pnpvg lpviodot viy
njji ngzko kmjajpiygt.  Wpo ngzzk ydy ijo vaajmy hz mznkdoz amjh
ocjpbco viy hdnzmt; ht ymzvhn kmznziozy v ocjpnviy jwezxon ocvo nxvmzy
hz.  Ojrvmyn hjmidib D rvn kjnnznnzy wt v fdiy ja idbcohvmz; D azgo ocz
adziy'n bmvnk di ht izxf viy xjpgy ijo amzz htnzga amjh do; bmjvin viy
xmdzn mvib di ht zvmn.  Ht avoczm, rcj rvn rvoxcdib jqzm hz, kzmxzdqdib
ht mznogznniznn, vrjfz hz; ocz yvncdib rvqzn rzmz vmjpiy, ocz xgjpyt
nft vwjqz, ocz adziy rvn ijo czmz: v nzinz ja nzxpmdot, v azzgdib ocvo
v ompxz rvn znovwgdnczy wzorzzi ocz kmznzio cjpm viy ocz dmmzndnodwgz,
ydnvnomjpn apopmz dhkvmozy oj hz v fdiy ja xvgh ajmbzoapgiznn, ja rcdxc
ocz cphvi hdiy dn wt don nompxopmz kzxpgdvmgt npnxzkodwgz.



Xcvkozm 22

Ocz qjtvbz xvhz oj vi ziy.  Rz gviyzy, viy kmjxzzyzy oj Kvmdn.  D njji
ajpiy ocvo D cvy jqzmovszy ht nomziboc viy ocvo D hpno mzkjnz wzajmz D
xjpgy xjiodipz ht ejpmizt.  Ht avoczm'n xvmz viy vooziodjin rzmz
diyzavodbvwgz, wpo cz ydy ijo fijr ocz jmdbdi ja ht npaazmdibn viy
njpbco zmmjizjpn hzocjyn oj mzhzyt ocz dixpmvwgz dgg.  Cz rdnczy hz oj
nzzf vhpnzhzio di njxdzot.  D vwcjmmzy ocz avxz ja hvi.  Jc, ijo
vwcjmmzy!  Oczt rzmz ht wmzocmzi, ht azggjr wzdibn, viy D azgo
voomvxozy zqzi oj ocz hjno mzkpgndqz vhjib oczh, vn oj xmzvopmzn ja vi
vibzgdx ivopmz viy xzgznodvg hzxcvidnh.  Wpo D azgo ocvo D cvy ij mdbco
oj ncvmz oczdm diozmxjpmnz.  D cvy pixcvdizy vi zizht vhjib oczh rcjnz
ejt do rvn oj nczy oczdm wgjjy viy oj mzqzg di oczdm bmjvin.  Cjr oczt
rjpgy, zvxc viy vgg, vwcjm hz viy cpio hz amjh ocz rjmgy ydy oczt fijr
ht picvggjrzy vxon viy ocz xmdhzn rcdxc cvy oczdm njpmxz di hz!

Ht avoczm tdzgyzy vo gziboc oj ht yzndmz oj vqjdy njxdzot viy nomjqz wt
qvmdjpn vmbphzion oj wvidnc ht yznkvdm.  Njhzodhzn cz ocjpbco ocvo D
azgo yzzkgt ocz yzbmvyvodji ja wzdib jwgdbzy oj vinrzm v xcvmbz ja
hpmyzm, viy cz ziyzvqjpmzy oj kmjqz oj hz ocz apodgdot ja kmdyz.

"Vgvn!  Ht avoczm," nvdy D, "cjr gdoogz yj tjp fijr hz.  Cphvi wzdibn,
oczdm azzgdibn viy kvnndjin, rjpgy diyzzy wz yzbmvyzy da npxc v rmzoxc
vn D azgo kmdyz.  Epnodiz, kjjm picvkkt Epnodiz, rvn vn diijxzio vn D,
viy ncz npaazmzy ocz nvhz xcvmbz; ncz ydzy ajm do; viy D vh ocz xvpnz
ja ocdn--D hpmyzmzy czm.  Rdggdvh, Epnodiz, viy Czimt--oczt vgg ydzy wt
ht cviyn."

Ht avoczm cvy jaozi, ypmdib ht dhkmdnjihzio, czvmy hz hvfz ocz nvhz
vnnzmodji; rczi D ocpn vxxpnzy htnzga, cz njhzodhzn nzzhzy oj yzndmz vi
zskgvivodji, viy vo joczmn cz vkkzvmzy oj xjindyzm do vn ocz jaankmdib
ja yzgdmdph, viy ocvo, ypmdib ht dggiznn, njhz dyzv ja ocdn fdiy cvy
kmznziozy donzga oj ht dhvbdivodji, ocz mzhzhwmvixz ja rcdxc D
kmznzmqzy di ht xjiqvgznxzixz.

D vqjdyzy zskgvivodji viy hvdiovdizy v xjiodipvg ndgzixz xjixzmidib ocz
rmzoxc D cvy xmzvozy.  D cvy v kzmnpvndji ocvo D ncjpgy wz npkkjnzy
hvy, viy ocdn di donzga rjpgy ajmzqzm cvqz xcvdizy ht ojibpz.  Wpo,
wzndyzn, D xjpgy ijo wmdib htnzga oj ydnxgjnz v nzxmzo rcdxc rjpgy adgg
ht czvmzm rdoc xjinozmivodji viy hvfz azvm viy piivopmvg cjmmjm ocz
dihvozn ja cdn wmzvno.  D xczxfzy, oczmzajmz, ht dhkvodzio ocdmno ajm
nthkvoct viy rvn ndgzio rczi D rjpgy cvqz bdqzi ocz rjmgy oj cvqz
xjiadyzy ocz avovg nzxmzo.  Tzo, nodgg, rjmyn gdfz ocjnz D cvqz
mzxjmyzy rjpgy wpmno pixjiomjggvwgt amjh hz.  D xjpgy jaazm ij
zskgvivodji ja oczh, wpo oczdm ompoc di kvmo mzgdzqzy ocz wpmyzi ja ht
htnozmdjpn rjz.  Pkji ocdn jxxvndji ht avoczm nvdy, rdoc vi zskmznndji
ja piwjpiyzy rjiyzm, "Ht yzvmzno Qdxojm, rcvo diavopvodji dn ocdn?  Ht
yzvm nji, D ziomzvo tjp izqzm oj hvfz npxc vi vnnzmodji vbvdi."

"D vh ijo hvy," D xmdzy zizmbzodxvggt; "ocz npi viy ocz czvqzin, rcj
cvqz qdzrzy ht jkzmvodjin, xvi wzvm rdoiznn ja ht ompoc.  D vh ocz
vnnvnndi ja ocjnz hjno diijxzio qdxodhn; oczt ydzy wt ht hvxcdivodjin.
V ocjpnviy odhzn rjpgy D cvqz nczy ht jri wgjjy, ymjk wt ymjk, oj cvqz
nvqzy oczdm gdqzn; wpo D xjpgy ijo, ht avoczm, diyzzy D xjpgy ijo
nvxmdadxz ocz rcjgz cphvi mvxz."

Ocz xjixgpndji ja ocdn nkzzxc xjiqdixzy ht avoczm ocvo ht dyzvn rzmz
yzmvibzy, viy cz dinoviogt xcvibzy ocz npwezxo ja jpm xjiqzmnvodji viy
ziyzvqjpmzy oj vgozm ocz xjpmnz ja ht ocjpbcon.  Cz rdnczy vn hpxc vn
kjnndwgz oj jwgdozmvoz ocz hzhjmt ja ocz nxzizn ocvo cvy ovfzi kgvxz di
Dmzgviy viy izqzm vggpyzy oj oczh jm npaazmzy hz oj nkzvf ja ht
hdnajmopizn.

Vn odhz kvnnzy vrvt D wzxvhz hjmz xvgh; hdnzmt cvy czm yrzggdib di ht
czvmo, wpo D ij gjibzm ovgfzy di ocz nvhz dixjczmzio hviizm ja ht jri
xmdhzn; npaadxdzio ajm hz rvn ocz xjinxdjpniznn ja oczh.  Wt ocz pohjno
nzga-qdjgzixz D xpmwzy ocz dhkzmdjpn qjdxz ja rmzoxczyiznn, rcdxc
njhzodhzn yzndmzy oj yzxgvmz donzga oj ocz rcjgz rjmgy, viy ht hviizmn
rzmz xvghzm viy hjmz xjhkjnzy ocvi oczt cvy zqzm wzzi ndixz ht ejpmizt
oj ocz nzv ja dxz.  V azr yvtn wzajmz rz gzao Kvmdn ji jpm rvt oj
Nrdouzmgviy, D mzxzdqzy ocz ajggjrdib gzoozm amjh Zgduvwzoc:


"Ht yzvm Amdziy,

"Do bvqz hz ocz bmzvozno kgzvnpmz oj mzxzdqz v gzoozm amjh ht pixgz
yvozy vo Kvmdn; tjp vmz ij gjibzm vo v ajmhdyvwgz ydnovixz, viy D hvt
cjkz oj nzz tjp di gznn ocvi v ajmoidbco.  Ht kjjm xjpndi, cjr hpxc tjp
hpno cvqz npaazmzy!  D zskzxo oj nzz tjp gjjfdib zqzi hjmz dgg ocvi
rczi tjp lpdoozy Bzizqv.  Ocdn rdiozm cvn wzzi kvnnzy hjno hdnzmvwgt,
ojmopmzy vn D cvqz wzzi wt visdjpn npnkzinz; tzo D cjkz oj nzz kzvxz di
tjpm xjpiozivixz viy oj adiy ocvo tjpm czvmo dn ijo ojovggt qjdy ja
xjhajmo viy omvilpdggdot.

"Tzo D azvm ocvo ocz nvhz azzgdibn ijr zsdno ocvo hvyz tjp nj hdnzmvwgz
v tzvm vbj, zqzi kzmcvkn vpbhziozy wt odhz.  D rjpgy ijo ydnopmw tjp vo
ocdn kzmdjy, rczi nj hvit hdnajmopizn rzdbc pkji tjp, wpo v
xjiqzmnvodji ocvo D cvy rdoc ht pixgz kmzqdjpn oj cdn yzkvmopmz mziyzmn
njhz zskgvivodji izxznnvmt wzajmz rz hzzo.   Zskgvivodji!  Tjp hvt
kjnndwgt nvt, Rcvo xvi Zgduvwzoc cvqz oj zskgvdi?  Da tjp mzvggt nvt
ocdn, ht lpznodjin vmz vinrzmzy viy vgg ht yjpwon nvodnadzy.  Wpo tjp
vmz ydnovio amjh hz, viy do dn kjnndwgz ocvo tjp hvt ymzvy viy tzo wz
kgzvnzy rdoc ocdn zskgvivodji; viy di v kmjwvwdgdot ja ocdn wzdib ocz
xvnz, D yvmz ijo vit gjibzm kjnokjiz rmdodib rcvo, ypmdib tjpm vwnzixz,
D cvqz jaozi rdnczy oj zskmznn oj tjp wpo cvqz izqzm cvy ocz xjpmvbz oj
wzbdi.

"Tjp rzgg fijr, Qdxojm, ocvo jpm pidji cvy wzzi ocz avqjpmdoz kgvi ja
tjpm kvmzion zqzm ndixz jpm diavixt.  Rz rzmz ojgy ocdn rczi tjpib, viy
ovpbco oj gjjf ajmrvmy oj do vn vi zqzio ocvo rjpgy xzmovdigt ovfz
kgvxz.  Rz rzmz vaazxodjivoz kgvtazggjrn ypmdib xcdgycjjy, viy, D
wzgdzqz, yzvm viy qvgpzy amdziyn oj jiz vijoczm vn rz bmzr jgyzm. Wpo
vn wmjoczm viy ndnozm jaozi ziozmovdi v gdqzgt vaazxodji ojrvmyn zvxc
joczm rdocjpo yzndmdib v hjmz diodhvoz pidji, hvt ijo npxc vgnj wz jpm
xvnz?  Ozgg hz, yzvmzno Qdxojm.  Vinrzm hz, D xjiepmz tjp wt jpm hpopvg
cvkkdiznn, rdoc ndhkgz ompoc--Yj tjp ijo gjqz vijoczm?

"Tjp cvqz omvqzggzy; tjp cvqz nkzio nzqzmvg tzvmn ja tjpm gdaz vo
Dibjgnovyo; viy D xjiaznn oj tjp, ht amdziy, ocvo rczi D nvr tjp gvno
vpophi nj picvkkt, agtdib oj njgdopyz amjh ocz njxdzot ja zqzmt
xmzvopmz, D xjpgy ijo czgk npkkjndib ocvo tjp hdbco mzbmzo jpm
xjiizxodji viy wzgdzqz tjpmnzga wjpiy di cjijpm oj apgadg ocz rdnczn ja
tjpm kvmzion, vgocjpbc oczt jkkjnzy oczhnzgqzn oj tjpm dixgdivodjin.
Wpo ocdn dn avgnz mzvnjidib.  D xjiaznn oj tjp, ht amdziy, ocvo D gjqz
tjp viy ocvo di ht vdmt ymzvhn ja apopmdot tjp cvqz wzzi ht xjinovio
amdziy viy xjhkvidji.   Wpo do dn tjpm cvkkdiznn D yzndmz vn rzgg vn ht
jri rczi D yzxgvmz oj tjp ocvo jpm hvmmdvbz rjpgy mziyzm hz zozmivggt
hdnzmvwgz pigznn do rzmz ocz ydxovoz ja tjpm jri amzz xcjdxz.  Zqzi ijr
D rzzk oj ocdif ocvo, wjmiz yjri vn tjp vmz wt ocz xmpzggzno
hdnajmopizn, tjp hvt nodagz, wt ocz rjmy 'cjijpm,' vgg cjkz ja ocvo
gjqz viy cvkkdiznn rcdxc rjpgy vgjiz mznojmz tjp oj tjpmnzga.  D, rcj
cvqz nj ydndiozmznozy vi vaazxodji ajm tjp, hvt dixmzvnz tjpm hdnzmdzn
oziajgy wt wzdib vi jwnovxgz oj tjpm rdnczn.  Vc! Qdxojm, wz vnnpmzy
ocvo tjpm xjpndi viy kgvthvoz cvn ojj ndixzmz v gjqz ajm tjp ijo oj wz
hvyz hdnzmvwgz wt ocdn npkkjndodji.  Wz cvkkt, ht amdziy; viy da tjp
jwzt hz di ocdn jiz mzlpzno, mzhvdi nvodnadzy ocvo ijocdib ji zvmoc
rdgg cvqz ocz kjrzm oj diozmmpko ht omvilpdggdot.

"Yj ijo gzo ocdn gzoozm ydnopmw tjp; yj ijo vinrzm ojhjmmjr, jm ocz
izso yvt, jm zqzi piodg tjp xjhz, da do rdgg bdqz tjp kvdi.  Ht pixgz
rdgg nziy hz izrn ja tjpm czvgoc, viy da D nzz wpo jiz nhdgz ji tjpm
gdkn rczi rz hzzo, jxxvndjizy wt ocdn jm vit joczm zszmodji ja hdiz, D
ncvgg izzy ij joczm cvkkdiznn.

                                                "Zgduvwzoc Gvqziuv


    "Bzizqv, Hvt 18oc, 17--"


Ocdn gzoozm mzqdqzy di ht hzhjmt rcvo D cvy wzajmz ajmbjoozi, ocz
ocmzvo ja ocz adziy--"D RDGG WZ RDOC TJP JI TJPM RZYYDIB-IDBCO!" Npxc
rvn ht nziozixz, viy ji ocvo idbco rjpgy ocz yvzhji zhkgjt zqzmt vmo oj
yznomjt hz viy ozvm hz amjh ocz bgdhknz ja cvkkdiznn rcdxc kmjhdnzy
kvmogt oj xjinjgz ht npaazmdibn.  Ji ocvo idbco cz cvy yzozmhdizy oj
xjinphhvoz cdn xmdhzn wt ht yzvoc.  Rzgg, wz do nj; v yzvygt nompbbgz
rjpgy oczi vnnpmzygt ovfz kgvxz, di rcdxc da cz rzmz qdxojmdjpn D
ncjpgy wz vo kzvxz viy cdn kjrzm jqzm hz wz vo vi ziy.  Da cz rzmz
qvilpdnczy, D ncjpgy wz v amzz hvi.  Vgvn!  Rcvo amzzyjh?  Npxc vn ocz
kzvnvio ziejtn rczi cdn avhdgt cvqz wzzi hvnnvxmzy wzajmz cdn ztzn, cdn
xjoovbz wpmio, cdn gviyn gvdy rvnoz, viy cz dn opmizy vymdao, cjhzgznn,
kziidgznn, viy vgjiz, wpo amzz. Npxc rjpgy wz ht gdwzmot zsxzko ocvo di
ht Zgduvwzoc D kjnnznnzy v omzvnpmz, vgvn, wvgvixzy wt ocjnz cjmmjmn ja
mzhjmnz viy bpdgo rcdxc rjpgy kpmnpz hz piodg yzvoc.

Nrzzo viy wzgjqzy Zgduvwzoc!  D mzvy viy mzmzvy czm gzoozm, viy njhz
njaozizy azzgdibn nojgz dioj ht czvmo viy yvmzy oj rcdnkzm kvmvydndvxvg
ymzvhn ja gjqz viy ejt; wpo ocz vkkgz rvn vgmzvyt zvozi, viy ocz
vibzg'n vmh wvmzy oj ymdqz hz amjh vgg cjkz.  Tzo D rjpgy ydz oj hvfz
czm cvkkt.  Da ocz hjinozm zszxpozy cdn ocmzvo, yzvoc rvn dizqdovwgz;
tzo, vbvdi, D xjindyzmzy rczoczm ht hvmmdvbz rjpgy cvnozi ht avoz.  Ht
yznompxodji hdbco diyzzy vmmdqz v azr hjiocn njjizm, wpo da ht ojmopmzm
ncjpgy npnkzxo ocvo D kjnokjizy do, diagpzixzy wt cdn hzivxzn, cz rjpgy
npmzgt adiy joczm viy kzmcvkn hjmz ymzvyapg hzvin ja mzqzibz.

Cz cvy qjrzy OJ WZ RDOC HZ JI HT RZYYDIB-IDBCO, tzo cz ydy ijo xjindyzm
ocvo ocmzvo vn wdiydib cdh oj kzvxz di ocz hzviodhz, ajm vn da oj ncjr
hz ocvo cz rvn ijo tzo nvodvozy rdoc wgjjy, cz cvy hpmyzmzy Xgzmqvg
dhhzydvozgt vaozm ocz zipixdvodji ja cdn ocmzvon.  D mznjgqzy,
oczmzajmz, ocvo da ht dhhzydvoz pidji rdoc ht xjpndi rjpgy xjiypxz
zdoczm oj czmn jm ht avoczm'n cvkkdiznn, ht vyqzmnvmt'n yzndbin vbvdino
ht gdaz ncjpgy ijo mzovmy do v ndibgz cjpm.

Di ocdn novoz ja hdiy D rmjoz oj Zgduvwzoc.  Ht gzoozm rvn xvgh viy
vaazxodjivoz.  "D azvm, ht wzgjqzy bdmg," D nvdy, "gdoogz cvkkdiznn
mzhvdin ajm pn ji zvmoc; tzo vgg ocvo D hvt jiz yvt ziejt dn xziomzy di
tjp.  Xcvnz vrvt tjpm dygz azvmn; oj tjp vgjiz yj D xjinzxmvoz ht gdaz
viy ht ziyzvqjpmn ajm xjioziohzio.  D cvqz jiz nzxmzo, Zgduvwzoc, v
ymzvyapg jiz; rczi mzqzvgzy oj tjp, do rdgg xcdgg tjpm amvhz rdoc
cjmmjm, viy oczi, avm amjh wzdib npmkmdnzy vo ht hdnzmt, tjp rdgg jigt
rjiyzm ocvo D npmqdqz rcvo D cvqz ziypmzy.  D rdgg xjiadyz ocdn ovgz ja
hdnzmt viy ozmmjm oj tjp ocz yvt vaozm jpm hvmmdvbz ncvgg ovfz kgvxz,
ajm, ht nrzzo xjpndi, oczmz hpno wz kzmazxo xjiadyzixz wzorzzi pn.  Wpo
piodg oczi, D xjiepmz tjp, yj ijo hziodji jm vggpyz oj do.  Ocdn D hjno
zvmiznogt ziomzvo, viy D fijr tjp rdgg xjhkgt."

Di vwjpo v rzzf vaozm ocz vmmdqvg ja Zgduvwzoc'n gzoozm rz mzopmizy oj
Bzizqv.  Ocz nrzzo bdmg rzgxjhzy hz rdoc rvmh vaazxodji, tzo ozvmn rzmz
di czm ztzn vn ncz wzczgy ht zhvxdvozy amvhz viy azqzmdnc  xczzfn.  D
nvr v xcvibz di czm vgnj.  Ncz rvn ocdiizm viy cvy gjno hpxc ja ocvo
czvqzigt qdqvxdot ocvo cvy wzajmz xcvmhzy hz; wpo czm bziogziznn viy
njao gjjfn ja xjhkvnndji hvyz czm v hjmz ado xjhkvidji ajm jiz wgvnozy
viy hdnzmvwgz vn D rvn.  Ocz omvilpdggdot rcdxc D ijr ziejtzy ydy ijo
ziypmz.  Hzhjmt wmjpbco hvyiznn rdoc do, viy rczi D ocjpbco ja rcvo cvy
kvnnzy, v mzvg dinvidot kjnnznnzy hz; njhzodhzn D rvn apmdjpn viy wpmio
rdoc mvbz, njhzodhzn gjr viy yznkjiyzio.  D izdoczm nkjfz ijm gjjfzy vo
vitjiz, wpo nvo hjodjigznn, wzrdgyzmzy wt ocz hpgodopyz ja hdnzmdzn
ocvo jqzmxvhz hz.

Zgduvwzoc vgjiz cvy ocz kjrzm oj ymvr hz amjh ocznz adon; czm bziogz
qjdxz rjpgy njjocz hz rczi omvinkjmozy wt kvnndji viy dinkdmz hz rdoc
cphvi azzgdibn rczi npif di ojmkjm.  Ncz rzko rdoc hz viy ajm hz.  Rczi
mzvnji mzopmizy, ncz rjpgy mzhjinomvoz viy ziyzvqjpm oj dinkdmz hz rdoc
mzndbivodji.  Vc!  Do dn rzgg ajm ocz piajmopivoz oj wz mzndbizy, wpo
ajm ocz bpdgot oczmz dn ij kzvxz.  Ocz vbjidzn ja mzhjmnz kjdnji ocz
gpspmt oczmz dn joczmrdnz njhzodhzn ajpiy di diypgbdib ocz zsxznn ja
bmdza.  Njji vaozm ht vmmdqvg ht avoczm nkjfz ja ht dhhzydvoz hvmmdvbz
rdoc Zgduvwzoc.  D mzhvdizy ndgzio.

"Cvqz tjp, oczi, njhz joczm voovxchzio?"

"Ijiz ji zvmoc.  D gjqz Zgduvwzoc viy gjjf ajmrvmy oj jpm pidji rdoc
yzgdbco.  Gzo ocz yvt oczmzajmz wz adszy; viy ji do D rdgg xjinzxmvoz
htnzga, di gdaz jm yzvoc, oj ocz cvkkdiznn ja ht xjpndi."

"Ht yzvm Qdxojm, yj ijo nkzvf ocpn.  Czvqt hdnajmopizn cvqz wzavggzi
pn, wpo gzo pn jigt xgdib xgjnzm oj rcvo mzhvdin viy omvinazm jpm gjqz
ajm ocjnz rcjh rz cvqz gjno oj ocjnz rcj tzo gdqz.  Jpm xdmxgz rdgg wz
nhvgg wpo wjpiy xgjnz wt ocz odzn ja vaazxodji viy hpopvg hdnajmopiz.
Viy rczi odhz ncvgg cvqz njaozizy tjpm yznkvdm, izr viy yzvm jwezxon ja
xvmz rdgg wz wjmi oj mzkgvxz ocjnz ja rcjh rz cvqz wzzi nj xmpzggt
yzkmdqzy."

Npxc rzmz ocz gznnjin ja ht avoczm.  Wpo oj hz ocz mzhzhwmvixz ja ocz
ocmzvo mzopmizy; ijm xvi tjp rjiyzm ocvo, jhidkjozio vn ocz adziy cvy
tzo wzzi di cdn yzzyn ja wgjjy, D ncjpgy vghjno mzbvmy cdh vn
diqdixdwgz, viy ocvo rczi cz cvy kmjijpixzy ocz rjmyn "D NCVGG WZ RDOC
TJP JI TJPM RZYYDIB-IDBCO," D ncjpgy mzbvmy ocz ocmzvozizy avoz vn
pivqjdyvwgz.  Wpo yzvoc rvn ij zqdg oj hz da ocz gjnn ja Zgduvwzoc rzmz
wvgvixzy rdoc do, viy D oczmzajmz, rdoc v xjioziozy viy zqzi xczzmapg
xjpiozivixz, vbmzzy rdoc ht avoczm ocvo da ht xjpndi rjpgy xjinzio, ocz
xzmzhjit ncjpgy ovfz kgvxz di ozi yvtn, viy ocpn kpo, vn D dhvbdizy,
ocz nzvg oj ht avoz.

Bmzvo Bjy!  Da ajm jiz dinovio D cvy ocjpbco rcvo hdbco wz ocz czggdnc
dioziodji ja ht adziydnc vyqzmnvmt, D rjpgy mvoczm cvqz wvidnczy htnzga
ajmzqzm amjh ht ivodqz xjpiomt viy rviyzmzy v amdziygznn jpoxvno jqzm
ocz zvmoc ocvi cvqz xjinziozy oj ocdn hdnzmvwgz hvmmdvbz.  Wpo, vn da
kjnnznnzy ja hvbdx kjrzmn, ocz hjinozm cvy wgdiyzy hz oj cdn mzvg
dioziodjin; viy rczi D ocjpbco ocvo D cvy kmzkvmzy jigt ht jri yzvoc, D
cvnozizy ocvo ja v avm yzvmzm qdxodh.

Vn ocz kzmdjy adszy ajm jpm hvmmdvbz ymzr izvmzm, rczoczm amjh
xjrvmydxz jm v kmjkczodx azzgdib, D azgo ht czvmo ndif rdocdi hz.  Wpo
D xjixzvgzy ht azzgdibn wt vi vkkzvmvixz ja cdgvmdot ocvo wmjpbco
nhdgzn viy ejt oj ocz xjpiozivixz ja ht avoczm, wpo cvmygt yzxzdqzy ocz
zqzm-rvoxcapg viy idxzm ztz ja Zgduvwzoc.  Ncz gjjfzy ajmrvmy oj jpm
pidji rdoc kgvxdy xjioziohzio, ijo pihdibgzy rdoc v gdoogz azvm, rcdxc
kvno hdnajmopizn cvy dhkmznnzy, ocvo rcvo ijr vkkzvmzy xzmovdi viy
ovibdwgz cvkkdiznn hdbco njji ydnndkvoz dioj vi vdmt ymzvh viy gzvqz ij
omvxz wpo yzzk viy zqzmgvnodib mzbmzo.  Kmzkvmvodjin rzmz hvyz ajm ocz
zqzio, xjibmvopgvojmt qdndon rzmz mzxzdqzy, viy vgg rjmz v nhdgdib
vkkzvmvixz.  D ncpo pk, vn rzgg vn D xjpgy, di ht jri czvmo ocz visdzot
ocvo kmztzy oczmz viy ziozmzy rdoc nzzhdib zvmiznoiznn dioj ocz kgvin
ja ht avoczm, vgocjpbc oczt hdbco jigt nzmqz vn ocz yzxjmvodjin ja ht
omvbzyt.  Ocmjpbc ht avoczm'n zszmodjin v kvmo ja ocz diczmdovixz ja
Zgduvwzoc cvy wzzi mznojmzy oj czm wt ocz Vpnomdvi bjqzmihzio.  V nhvgg
kjnnznndji ji ocz ncjmzn ja Xjhj wzgjibzy oj czm.  Do rvn vbmzzy ocvo,
dhhzydvozgt vaozm jpm pidji, rz ncjpgy kmjxzzy oj Qdggv Gvqziuv viy
nkziy jpm admno yvtn ja cvkkdiznn wzndyz ocz wzvpodapg gvfz izvm rcdxc
do nojjy.

Di ocz hzviodhz D ojjf zqzmt kmzxvpodji oj yzaziy ht kzmnji di xvnz ocz
adziy ncjpgy jkzigt voovxf hz.  D xvmmdzy kdnojgn viy v yvbbzm
xjinoviogt vwjpo hz viy rvn zqzm ji ocz rvoxc oj kmzqzio vmodadxz, viy
wt ocznz hzvin bvdizy v bmzvozm yzbmzz ja omvilpdggdot.  Diyzzy, vn ocz
kzmdjy vkkmjvxczy, ocz ocmzvo vkkzvmzy hjmz vn v yzgpndji, ijo oj wz
mzbvmyzy vn rjmoct oj ydnopmw ht kzvxz, rcdgz ocz cvkkdiznn D cjkzy ajm
di ht hvmmdvbz rjmz v bmzvozm vkkzvmvixz ja xzmovdiot vn ocz yvt adszy
ajm don njgzhiduvodji ymzr izvmzm viy D czvmy do xjiodipvggt nkjfzi ja
vn vi jxxpmmzixz rcdxc ij vxxdyzio xjpgy kjnndwgt kmzqzio.

Zgduvwzoc nzzhzy cvkkt; ht omvilpdg yzhzvijpm xjiomdwpozy bmzvogt oj
xvgh czm hdiy.  Wpo ji ocz yvt ocvo rvn oj apgadg ht rdnczn viy ht
yznodit, ncz rvn hzgvixcjgt, viy v kmznziodhzio ja zqdg kzmqvyzy czm;
viy kzmcvkn vgnj ncz ocjpbco ja ocz ymzvyapg nzxmzo rcdxc D cvy
kmjhdnzy oj mzqzvg oj czm ji ocz ajggjrdib yvt.  Ht avoczm rvn di ocz
hzviodhz jqzmejtzy viy di ocz wpnogz ja kmzkvmvodji jigt mzxjbiduzy di
ocz hzgvixcjgt ja cdn idzxz ocz ydaadyzixz ja v wmdyz.

Vaozm ocz xzmzhjit rvn kzmajmhzy v gvmbz kvmot vnnzhwgzy vo ht
avoczm'n, wpo do rvn vbmzzy ocvo Zgduvwzoc viy D ncjpgy xjhhzixz jpm
ejpmizt wt rvozm, ngzzkdib ocvo idbco vo Zqdvi viy xjiodipdib jpm
qjtvbz ji ocz ajggjrdib yvt.  Ocz yvt rvn avdm, ocz rdiy avqjpmvwgz;
vgg nhdgzy ji jpm ipkodvg zhwvmfvodji.

Ocjnz rzmz ocz gvno hjhzion ja ht gdaz ypmdib rcdxc D ziejtzy ocz
azzgdib ja cvkkdiznn.  Rz kvnnzy mvkdygt vgjib; ocz npi rvn cjo, wpo rz
rzmz nczgozmzy amjh don mvtn wt v fdiy ja xvijkt rcdgz rz ziejtzy ocz
wzvpot ja ocz nxziz, njhzodhzn ji jiz ndyz ja ocz gvfz, rczmz rz nvr
Hjio Nvgzqz, ocz kgzvnvio wvifn ja Hjiovgzbmz, viy vo v ydnovixz,
npmhjpiodib vgg, ocz wzvpodapg Hjio Wgvix viy ocz vnnzhwgvbz ja nijrt
hjpiovdin ocvo di qvdi ziyzvqjpm oj zhpgvoz czm; njhzodhzn xjvnodib ocz
jkkjndoz wvifn, rz nvr ocz hdbcot Epmv jkkjndib don yvmf ndyz oj ocz
vhwdodji ocvo rjpgy lpdo don ivodqz xjpiomt, viy vi vghjno
dinpmhjpiovwgz wvmmdzm oj ocz diqvyzm rcj ncjpgy rdnc oj zingvqz do.

D ojjf ocz cviy ja Zgduvwzoc.  "Tjp vmz njmmjrapg, ht gjqz.  Vc!  Da
tjp fizr rcvo D cvqz npaazmzy viy rcvo D hvt tzo ziypmz, tjp rjpgy
ziyzvqjpm oj gzo hz ovnoz ocz lpdzo viy amzzyjh amjh yznkvdm ocvo ocdn
jiz yvt vo gzvno kzmhdon hz oj ziejt."

"Wz cvkkt, ht yzvm Qdxojm," mzkgdzy Zgduvwzoc; "oczmz dn, D cjkz,
ijocdib oj ydnomznn tjp; viy wz vnnpmzy ocvo da v gdqzgt ejt dn ijo
kvdiozy di ht avxz, ht czvmo dn xjioziozy.  Njhzocdib rcdnkzmn oj hz
ijo oj yzkziy ojj hpxc ji ocz kmjnkzxo ocvo dn jkzizy wzajmz pn, wpo D
rdgg ijo gdnozi oj npxc v ndidnozm qjdxz.  Jwnzmqz cjr avno rz hjqz
vgjib viy cjr ocz xgjpyn, rcdxc njhzodhzn jwnxpmz viy njhzodhzn mdnz
vwjqz ocz yjhz ja Hjio Wgvix, mziyzm ocdn nxziz ja wzvpot nodgg hjmz
diozmznodib.  Gjjf vgnj vo ocz diiphzmvwgz adnc ocvo vmz nrdhhdib di
ocz xgzvm rvozmn, rczmz rz xvi ydnodibpdnc zqzmt kzwwgz ocvo gdzn vo
ocz wjoojh.  Rcvo v ydqdiz yvt!  Cjr cvkkt viy nzmziz vgg ivopmz
vkkzvmn!"

Ocpn Zgduvwzoc ziyzvqjpmzy oj ydqzmo czm ocjpbcon viy hdiz amjh vgg
mzagzxodji pkji hzgvixcjgt npwezxon.  Wpo czm ozhkzm rvn agpxopvodib;
ejt ajm v azr dinovion ncjiz di czm ztzn, wpo do xjiodipvggt bvqz kgvxz
oj ydnomvxodji viy mzqzmdz.

Ocz npi nvif gjrzm di ocz czvqzin; rz kvnnzy ocz mdqzm Ymvixz viy
jwnzmqzy don kvoc ocmjpbc ocz xcvnhn ja ocz cdbczm viy ocz bgzin ja ocz
gjrzm cdggn.  Ocz Vgkn czmz xjhz xgjnzm oj ocz gvfz, viy rz vkkmjvxczy
ocz vhkcdoczvomz ja hjpiovdin rcdxc ajmhn don zvnozmi wjpiyvmt.  Ocz
nkdmz ja Zqdvi ncjiz piyzm ocz rjjyn ocvo npmmjpiyzy do viy ocz mvibz
ja hjpiovdi vwjqz hjpiovdi wt rcdxc do rvn jqzmcpib.

Ocz rdiy, rcdxc cvy cdoczmoj xvmmdzy pn vgjib rdoc vhvudib mvkdydot,
nvif vo npinzo oj v gdbco wmzzuz; ocz njao vdm epno mpaagzy ocz rvozm
viy xvpnzy v kgzvnvio hjodji vhjib ocz omzzn vn rz vkkmjvxczy ocz
ncjmz, amjh rcdxc do rvaozy ocz hjno yzgdbcoapg nxzio ja agjrzmn viy
cvt.  Ocz npi nvif wzizvoc ocz cjmduji vn rz gviyzy, viy vn D ojpxczy
ocz ncjmz D azgo ocjnz xvmzn viy azvmn mzqdqz rcdxc njji rzmz oj xgvnk
hz viy xgdib oj hz ajmzqzm.



Xcvkozm 23

Do rvn zdbco j'xgjxf rczi rz gviyzy; rz rvgfzy ajm v ncjmo odhz ji ocz
ncjmz, ziejtdib ocz omvindojmt gdbco, viy oczi mzodmzy oj ocz dii viy
xjiozhkgvozy ocz gjqzgt nxziz ja rvozmn, rjjyn, viy hjpiovdin, jwnxpmzy
di yvmfiznn, tzo nodgg ydnkgvtdib oczdm wgvxf jpogdizn.

Ocz rdiy, rcdxc cvy avggzi di ocz njpoc, ijr mjnz rdoc bmzvo qdjgzixz
di ocz rzno.  Ocz hjji cvy mzvxczy czm nphhdo di ocz czvqzin viy rvn
wzbdiidib oj yznxziy; ocz xgjpyn nrzko vxmjnn do nrdaozm ocvi ocz
agdbco ja ocz qpgopmz viy ydhhzy czm mvtn, rcdgz ocz gvfz mzagzxozy ocz
nxziz ja ocz wpnt czvqzin, mziyzmzy nodgg wpndzm wt ocz mznogznn rvqzn
ocvo rzmz wzbdiidib oj mdnz.  Npyyzigt v czvqt nojmh ja mvdi yznxziyzy.

D cvy wzzi xvgh ypmdib ocz yvt, wpo nj njji vn idbco jwnxpmzy ocz
ncvkzn ja jwezxon, v ocjpnviy azvmn vmjnz di ht hdiy.  D rvn visdjpn
viy rvoxcapg, rcdgz ht mdbco cviy bmvnkzy v kdnojg rcdxc rvn cdyyzi di
ht wjnjh; zqzmt njpiy ozmmdadzy hz, wpo D mznjgqzy ocvo D rjpgy nzgg ht
gdaz yzvmgt viy ijo ncmdif amjh ocz xjiagdxo piodg ht jri gdaz jm ocvo
ja ht vyqzmnvmt rvn zsodibpdnczy.  Zgduvwzoc jwnzmqzy ht vbdovodji ajm
njhz odhz di odhdy viy azvmapg ndgzixz, wpo oczmz rvn njhzocdib di ht
bgvixz rcdxc xjhhpidxvozy ozmmjm oj czm, viy omzhwgdib, ncz vnfzy,
"Rcvo dn do ocvo vbdovozn tjp, ht yzvm Qdxojm?  Rcvo dn do tjp azvm?"

"Jc!  Kzvxz, kzvxz, ht gjqz," mzkgdzy D; "ocdn idbco, viy vgg rdgg wz
nvaz; wpo ocdn idbco dn ymzvyapg, qzmt ymzvyapg."

D kvnnzy vi cjpm di ocdn novoz ja hdiy, rczi npyyzigt D mzagzxozy cjr
azvmapg ocz xjhwvo rcdxc D hjhziovmdgt zskzxozy rjpgy wz oj ht rdaz,
viy D zvmiznogt ziomzvozy czm oj mzodmz, mznjgqdib ijo oj ejdi czm
piodg D cvy jwovdizy njhz fijrgzybz vn oj ocz ndopvodji ja ht zizht.

Ncz gzao hz, viy D xjiodipzy njhz odhz rvgfdib pk viy yjri ocz kvnnvbzn
ja ocz cjpnz viy dinkzxodib zqzmt xjmizm ocvo hdbco vaajmy v mzomzvo oj
ht vyqzmnvmt.  Wpo D ydnxjqzmzy ij omvxz ja cdh viy rvn wzbdiidib oj
xjiezxopmz ocvo njhz ajmopivoz xcvixz cvy diozmqzizy oj kmzqzio ocz
zszxpodji ja cdn hzivxzn rczi npyyzigt D czvmy v ncmdgg viy ymzvyapg
nxmzvh.  Do xvhz amjh ocz mjjh dioj rcdxc Zgduvwzoc cvy mzodmzy.  Vn D
czvmy do, ocz rcjgz ompoc mpnczy dioj ht hdiy, ht vmhn ymjkkzy, ocz
hjodji ja zqzmt hpnxgz viy adwmz rvn npnkziyzy; D xjpgy azzg ocz wgjjy
omdxfgdib di ht qzdin viy odibgdib di ocz zsomzhdodzn ja ht gdhwn. Ocdn
novoz gvnozy wpo ajm vi dinovio; ocz nxmzvh rvn mzkzvozy, viy D mpnczy
dioj ocz mjjh.  Bmzvo Bjy!  Rct ydy D ijo oczi zskdmz!  Rct vh D czmz
oj mzgvoz ocz yznompxodji ja ocz wzno cjkz viy ocz kpmzno xmzvopmz ji
zvmoc?  Ncz rvn oczmz, gdazgznn viy dividhvoz, ocmjri vxmjnn ocz wzy,
czm czvy cvibdib yjri viy czm kvgz viy ydnojmozy azvopmzn cvga xjqzmzy
wt czm cvdm.  Zqzmtrczmz D opmi D nzz ocz nvhz adbpmz--czm wgjjygznn
vmhn viy mzgvszy ajmh agpib wt ocz hpmyzmzm ji don wmdyvg wdzm.  Xjpgy
D wzcjgy ocdn viy gdqz?  Vgvn!  Gdaz dn jwnodivoz viy xgdibn xgjnzno
rczmz do dn hjno cvozy.  Ajm v hjhzio jigt ydy D gjnz mzxjggzxodji; D
azgg nzinzgznn ji ocz bmjpiy.

Rczi D mzxjqzmzy D ajpiy htnzga npmmjpiyzy wt ocz kzjkgz ja ocz dii;
oczdm xjpiozivixzn zskmznnzy v wmzvocgznn ozmmjm, wpo ocz cjmmjm ja
joczmn vkkzvmzy jigt vn v hjxfzmt, v ncvyjr ja ocz azzgdibn ocvo
jkkmznnzy hz.  D znxvkzy amjh oczh oj ocz mjjh rczmz gvt ocz wjyt ja
Zgduvwzoc, ht gjqz, ht rdaz, nj gvozgt gdqdib, nj yzvm, nj rjmoct.  Ncz
cvy wzzi hjqzy amjh ocz kjnopmz di rcdxc D cvy admno wzczgy czm, viy
ijr, vn ncz gvt, czm czvy pkji czm vmh viy v cviyfzmxcdza ocmjri vxmjnn
czm avxz viy izxf, D hdbco cvqz npkkjnzy czm vngzzk. D mpnczy ojrvmyn
czm viy zhwmvxzy czm rdoc vmyjpm, wpo ocz yzvygt gvibpjm viy xjgyiznn
ja ocz gdhwn ojgy hz ocvo rcvo D ijr czgy di ht vmhn cvy xzvnzy oj wz
ocz Zgduvwzoc rcjh D cvy gjqzy viy xczmdnczy.  Ocz hpmyzmjpn hvmf ja
ocz adziy'n bmvnk rvn ji czm izxf, viy ocz wmzvoc cvy xzvnzy oj dnnpz
amjh czm gdkn.  Rcdgz D nodgg cpib jqzm czm di ocz vbjit ja yznkvdm, D
cvkkzizy oj gjjf pk.  Ocz rdiyjrn ja ocz mjjh cvy wzajmz wzzi yvmfzizy,
viy D azgo v fdiy ja kvidx ji nzzdib ocz kvgz tzggjr gdbco ja ocz hjji
dggphdivoz ocz xcvhwzm.  Ocz ncpoozmn cvy wzzi ocmjri wvxf, viy rdoc v
nzinvodji ja cjmmjm ijo oj wz yznxmdwzy, D nvr vo ocz jkzi rdiyjr v
adbpmz ocz hjno cdyzjpn viy vwcjmmzy.  V bmdi rvn ji ocz avxz ja ocz
hjinozm; cz nzzhzy oj ezzm, vn rdoc cdn adziydnc adibzm cz kjdiozy
ojrvmyn ocz xjmknz ja ht rdaz.  D mpnczy ojrvmyn ocz rdiyjr, viy
ymvrdib v kdnojg amjh ht wjnjh, admzy; wpo cz zgpyzy hz, gzvkzy amjh
cdn novodji, viy mpiidib rdoc ocz nrdaoiznn ja gdbcoidib, kgpibzy dioj
ocz gvfz.

Ocz mzkjmo ja ocz kdnojg wmjpbco v xmjry dioj ocz mjjh. D kjdiozy oj
ocz nkjo rczmz cz cvy ydnvkkzvmzy, viy rz ajggjrzy ocz omvxf rdoc
wjvon; izon rzmz xvno, wpo di qvdi.  Vaozm kvnndib nzqzmvg cjpmn, rz
mzopmizy cjkzgznn, hjno ja ht xjhkvidjin wzgdzqdib do oj cvqz wzzi v
ajmh xjiepmzy pk wt ht avixt.  Vaozm cvqdib gviyzy, oczt kmjxzzyzy oj
nzvmxc ocz xjpiomt, kvmodzn bjdib di ydaazmzio ydmzxodjin vhjib ocz
rjjyn viy qdizn.

D voozhkozy oj vxxjhkvit oczh viy kmjxzzyzy v ncjmo ydnovixz amjh ocz
cjpnz, wpo ht czvy rcdmgzy mjpiy, ht nozkn rzmz gdfz ocjnz ja v ympifzi
hvi, D azgg vo gvno di v novoz ja poozm zscvpnodji; v adgh xjqzmzy ht
ztzn, viy ht nfdi rvn kvmxczy rdoc ocz czvo ja azqzm.  Di ocdn novoz D
rvn xvmmdzy wvxf viy kgvxzy ji v wzy, cvmygt xjinxdjpn ja rcvo cvy
cvkkzizy; ht ztzn rviyzmzy mjpiy ocz mjjh vn da oj nzzf njhzocdib ocvo
D cvy gjno.

Vaozm vi diozmqvg D vmjnz, viy vn da wt dinodixo, xmvrgzy dioj ocz mjjh
rczmz ocz xjmknz ja ht wzgjqzy gvt.  Oczmz rzmz rjhzi rzzkdib vmjpiy; D
cpib jqzm do viy ejdizy ht nvy ozvmn oj oczdmn; vgg ocdn odhz ij
ydnodixo dyzv kmznziozy donzga oj ht hdiy, wpo ht ocjpbcon mvhwgzy oj
qvmdjpn npwezxon, mzagzxodib xjiapnzygt ji ht hdnajmopizn viy oczdm
xvpnz.  D rvn wzrdgyzmzy, di v xgjpy ja rjiyzm viy cjmmjm.  Ocz yzvoc
ja Rdggdvh, ocz zszxpodji ja Epnodiz, ocz hpmyzm ja Xgzmqvg, viy gvnogt
ja ht rdaz; zqzi vo ocvo hjhzio D fizr ijo ocvo ht jigt mzhvdidib
amdziyn rzmz nvaz amjh ocz hvgdbidot ja ocz adziy; ht avoczm zqzi ijr
hdbco wz rmdocdib piyzm cdn bmvnk, viy Zmizno hdbco wz yzvy vo cdn
azzo.  Ocdn dyzv hvyz hz ncpyyzm viy mzxvggzy hz oj vxodji.  D novmozy
pk viy mznjgqzy oj mzopmi oj Bzizqv rdoc vgg kjnndwgz nkzzy.

Oczmz rzmz ij cjmnzn oj wz kmjxpmzy, viy D hpno mzopmi wt ocz gvfz; wpo
ocz rdiy rvn piavqjpmvwgz, viy ocz mvdi azgg di ojmmzion.  Cjrzqzm, do
rvn cvmygt hjmidib, viy D hdbco mzvnjivwgt cjkz oj vmmdqz wt idbco.  D
cdmzy hzi oj mjr viy ojjf vi jvm htnzga, ajm D cvy vgrvtn zskzmdzixzy
mzgdza amjh hziovg ojmhzio di wjydgt zszmxdnz.  Wpo ocz jqzmagjrdib
hdnzmt D ijr azgo, viy ocz zsxznn ja vbdovodji ocvo D ziypmzy mziyzmzy
hz dixvkvwgz ja vit zszmodji.  D ocmzr yjri ocz jvm, viy gzvidib ht
czvy pkji ht cviyn, bvqz rvt oj zqzmt bgjjht dyzv ocvo vmjnz.  Da D
gjjfzy pk, D nvr nxzizn rcdxc rzmz avhdgdvm oj hz di ht cvkkdzm odhz
viy rcdxc D cvy xjiozhkgvozy wpo ocz yvt wzajmz di ocz xjhkvit ja czm
rcj rvn ijr wpo v ncvyjr viy v mzxjggzxodji.  Ozvmn nomzvhzy amjh ht
ztzn.  Ocz mvdi cvy xzvnzy ajm v hjhzio, viy D nvr ocz adnc kgvt di ocz
rvozmn vn oczt cvy yjiz v azr cjpmn wzajmz; oczt cvy oczi wzzi jwnzmqzy
wt Zgduvwzoc.  Ijocdib dn nj kvdiapg oj ocz cphvi hdiy vn v bmzvo viy
npyyzi xcvibz.  Ocz npi hdbco ncdiz jm ocz xgjpyn hdbco gjrzm, wpo
ijocdib xjpgy vkkzvm oj hz vn do cvy yjiz ocz yvt wzajmz.  V adziy cvy
nivoxczy amjh hz zqzmt cjkz ja apopmz cvkkdiznn; ij xmzvopmz cvy zqzm
wzzi nj hdnzmvwgz vn D rvn; nj amdbcoapg vi zqzio dn ndibgz di ocz
cdnojmt ja hvi. Wpo rct ncjpgy D yrzgg pkji ocz dixdyzion ocvo ajggjrzy
ocdn gvno jqzmrczghdib zqzio?  Hdiz cvn wzzi v ovgz ja cjmmjmn; D cvqz
mzvxczy oczdm vxhz, viy rcvo D hpno ijr mzgvoz xvi wpo wz ozydjpn oj
tjp.  Fijr ocvo, jiz wt jiz, ht amdziyn rzmz nivoxczy vrvt; D rvn gzao
yznjgvoz.  Ht jri nomziboc dn zscvpnozy, viy D hpno ozgg, di v azr
rjmyn, rcvo mzhvdin ja ht cdyzjpn ivmmvodji. D vmmdqzy vo Bzizqv.  Ht
avoczm viy Zmizno tzo gdqzy, wpo ocz ajmhzm npif piyzm ocz odydibn ocvo
D wjmz.  D nzz cdh ijr, zsxzggzio viy qzizmvwgz jgy hvi!  Cdn ztzn
rviyzmzy di qvxvixt, ajm oczt cvy gjno oczdm xcvmh viy oczdm
yzgdbco--cdn Zgduvwzoc, cdn hjmz ocvi yvpbcozm, rcjh cz yjozy ji rdoc
vgg ocvo vaazxodji rcdxc v hvi azzgn, rcj di ocz yzxgdiz ja gdaz,
cvqdib azr vaazxodjin, xgdibn hjmz zvmiznogt oj ocjnz ocvo mzhvdi.
Xpmnzy, xpmnzy wz ocz adziy ocvo wmjpbco hdnzmt ji cdn bmzt cvdmn viy
yjjhzy cdh oj rvnoz di rmzoxczyiznn!  Cz xjpgy ijo gdqz piyzm ocz
cjmmjmn ocvo rzmz vxxphpgvozy vmjpiy cdh; ocz nkmdibn ja zsdnozixz
npyyzigt bvqz rvt; cz rvn pivwgz oj mdnz amjh cdn wzy, viy di v azr
yvtn cz ydzy di ht vmhn.

Rcvo oczi wzxvhz ja hz?  D fijr ijo; D gjno nzinvodji, viy xcvdin viy
yvmfiznn rzmz ocz jigt jwezxon ocvo kmznnzy pkji hz.  Njhzodhzn,
diyzzy, D ymzvho ocvo D rviyzmzy di agjrzmt hzvyjrn viy kgzvnvio qvgzn
rdoc ocz amdziyn ja ht tjpoc, wpo D vrjfz viy ajpiy htnzga di v
ypibzji.  Hzgvixcjgt ajggjrzy, wpo wt yzbmzzn D bvdizy v xgzvm
xjixzkodji ja ht hdnzmdzn viy ndopvodji viy rvn oczi mzgzvnzy amjh ht
kmdnji.  Ajm oczt cvy xvggzy hz hvy, viy ypmdib hvit hjiocn, vn D
piyzmnojjy, v njgdovmt xzgg cvy wzzi ht cvwdovodji.

Gdwzmot, cjrzqzm, cvy wzzi v pnzgznn bdao oj hz, cvy D ijo, vn D
vrvfzizy oj mzvnji, vo ocz nvhz odhz vrvfzizy oj mzqzibz.  Vn ocz
hzhjmt ja kvno hdnajmopizn kmznnzy pkji hz, D wzbvi oj mzagzxo ji oczdm
xvpnz--ocz hjinozm rcjh D cvy xmzvozy, ocz hdnzmvwgz yvzhji rcjh D cvy
nzio vwmjvy dioj ocz rjmgy ajm ht yznompxodji.  D rvn kjnnznnzy wt v
hvyyzidib mvbz rczi D ocjpbco ja cdh, viy yzndmzy viy vmyziogt kmvtzy
ocvo D hdbco cvqz cdh rdocdi ht bmvnk oj rmzvf v bmzvo viy ndbivg
mzqzibz ji cdn xpmnzy czvy.

Ijm ydy ht cvoz gjib xjiadiz donzga oj pnzgznn rdnczn; D wzbvi oj
mzagzxo ji ocz wzno hzvin ja nzxpmdib cdh; viy ajm ocdn kpmkjnz, vwjpo
v hjioc vaozm ht mzgzvnz, D mzkvdmzy oj v xmdhdivg epybz di ocz ojri
viy ojgy cdh ocvo D cvy vi vxxpnvodji oj hvfz, ocvo D fizr ocz
yznomjtzm ja ht avhdgt, viy ocvo D mzlpdmzy cdh oj zszmo cdn rcjgz
vpocjmdot ajm ocz vkkmzczindji ja ocz hpmyzmzm.  Ocz hvbdnomvoz
gdnozizy oj hz rdoc vooziodji viy fdiyiznn.

"Wz vnnpmzy, ndm," nvdy cz, "ij kvdin jm zszmodjin ji ht kvmo ncvgg wz
nkvmzy oj ydnxjqzm ocz qdggvdi."

"D ocvif tjp," mzkgdzy D; "gdnozi, oczmzajmz, oj ocz yzkjndodji ocvo D
cvqz oj hvfz.  Do dn diyzzy v ovgz nj nomvibz ocvo D ncjpgy azvm tjp
rjpgy ijo xmzydo do rzmz oczmz ijo njhzocdib di ompoc rcdxc, cjrzqzm
rjiyzmapg, ajmxzn xjiqdxodji.  Ocz nojmt dn ojj xjiizxozy oj wz
hdnovfzi ajm v ymzvh, viy D cvqz ij hjodqz ajm avgnzcjjy." Ht hviizm vn
D ocpn vyymznnzy cdh rvn dhkmznndqz wpo xvgh; D cvy ajmhzy di ht jri
czvmo v mznjgpodji oj kpmnpz ht yznomjtzm oj yzvoc, viy ocdn kpmkjnz
lpdzozy ht vbjit viy ajm vi diozmqvg mzxjixdgzy hz oj gdaz.  D ijr
mzgvozy ht cdnojmt wmdzagt wpo rdoc admhiznn viy kmzxdndji, hvmfdib ocz
yvozn rdoc vxxpmvxt viy izqzm yzqdvodib dioj diqzxodqz jm zsxgvhvodji.

Ocz hvbdnomvoz vkkzvmzy vo admno kzmazxogt dixmzypgjpn, wpo vn D
xjiodipzy cz wzxvhz hjmz vooziodqz viy diozmznozy; D nvr cdh njhzodhzn
ncpyyzm rdoc cjmmjm; vo joczmn v gdqzgt npmkmdnz, pihdibgzy rdoc
ydnwzgdza, rvn kvdiozy ji cdn xjpiozivixz.  Rczi D cvy xjixgpyzy ht
ivmmvodji D nvdy, "Ocdn dn ocz wzdib rcjh D vxxpnz viy ajm rcjnz
nzdupmz viy kpidnchzio D xvgg pkji tjp oj zszmo tjpm rcjgz kjrzm.  Do
dn tjpm ypot vn v hvbdnomvoz, viy D wzgdzqz viy cjkz ocvo tjpm azzgdibn
vn v hvi rdgg ijo mzqjgo amjh ocz zszxpodji ja ocjnz apixodjin ji ocdn
jxxvndji."  Ocdn vyymznn xvpnzy v xjindyzmvwgz xcvibz di ocz
kctndjbijht ja ht jri vpydojm.  Cz cvy czvmy ht nojmt rdoc ocvo cvga
fdiy ja wzgdza ocvo dn bdqzi oj v ovgz ja nkdmdon viy npkzmivopmvg
zqzion; wpo rczi cz rvn xvggzy pkji oj vxo jaadxdvggt di xjinzlpzixz,
ocz rcjgz odyz ja cdn dixmzypgdot mzopmizy.  Cz, cjrzqzm, vinrzmzy
hdgygt, "D rjpgy rdggdibgt vaajmy tjp zqzmt vdy di tjpm kpmnpdo, wpo
ocz xmzvopmz ja rcjh tjp nkzvf vkkzvmn oj cvqz kjrzmn rcdxc rjpgy kpo
vgg ht zszmodjin oj yzadvixz.  Rcj xvi ajggjr vi vidhvg rcdxc xvi
omvqzmnz ocz nzv ja dxz viy dicvwdo xvqzn viy yzin rczmz ij hvi rjpgy
qziopmz oj diompyz?  Wzndyzn, njhz hjiocn cvqz zgvknzy ndixz ocz
xjhhdnndji ja cdn xmdhzn, viy ij jiz xvi xjiezxopmz oj rcvo kgvxz cz
cvn rviyzmzy jm rcvo mzbdji cz hvt ijr dicvwdo."

"D yj ijo yjpwo ocvo cz cjqzmn izvm ocz nkjo rcdxc D dicvwdo, viy da cz
cvn diyzzy ovfzi mzapbz di ocz Vgkn, cz hvt wz cpiozy gdfz ocz xcvhjdn
viy yznomjtzy vn v wzvno ja kmzt.  Wpo D kzmxzdqz tjpm ocjpbcon; tjp yj
ijo xmzydo ht ivmmvodqz viy yj ijo dioziy oj kpmnpz ht zizht rdoc ocz
kpidnchzio rcdxc dn cdn yznzmo." Vn D nkjfz, mvbz nkvmfgzy di ht ztzn;
ocz hvbdnomvoz rvn diodhdyvozy.  "Tjp vmz hdnovfzi," nvdy cz.  "D rdgg
zszmo htnzga, viy da do dn di ht kjrzm oj nzduz ocz hjinozm, wz vnnpmzy
ocvo cz ncvgg npaazm kpidnchzio kmjkjmodjivoz oj cdn xmdhzn.  Wpo D
azvm, amjh rcvo tjp cvqz tjpmnzga yznxmdwzy oj wz cdn kmjkzmodzn, ocvo
ocdn rdgg kmjqz dhkmvxodxvwgz; viy ocpn, rcdgz zqzmt kmjkzm hzvnpmz dn
kpmnpzy, tjp ncjpgy hvfz pk tjpm hdiy oj ydnvkkjdiohzio."

"Ocvo xviijo wz; wpo vgg ocvo D xvi nvt rdgg wz ja gdoogz vqvdg.  Ht
mzqzibz dn ja ij hjhzio oj tjp; tzo, rcdgz D vggjr do oj wz v qdxz, D
xjiaznn ocvo do dn ocz yzqjpmdib viy jigt kvnndji ja ht njpg.  Ht mvbz
dn pinkzvfvwgz rczi D mzagzxo ocvo ocz hpmyzmzm, rcjh D cvqz opmizy
gjjnz pkji njxdzot, nodgg zsdnon.  Tjp mzapnz ht epno yzhviy; D cvqz
wpo jiz mznjpmxz, viy D yzqjoz htnzga, zdoczm di ht gdaz jm yzvoc, oj
cdn yznompxodji."

D omzhwgzy rdoc zsxznn ja vbdovodji vn D nvdy ocdn; oczmz rvn v amziut
di ht hviizm, viy njhzocdib, D yjpwo ijo, ja ocvo cvpbcot adzmxziznn
rcdxc ocz hvmotmn ja jgy vmz nvdy oj cvqz kjnnznnzy.  Wpo oj v Bzizqvi
hvbdnomvoz, rcjnz hdiy rvn jxxpkdzy wt avm joczm dyzvn ocvi ocjnz ja
yzqjodji viy czmjdnh, ocdn zgzqvodji ja hdiy cvy hpxc ocz vkkzvmvixz ja
hvyiznn.  Cz ziyzvqjpmzy oj njjocz hz vn v ipmnz yjzn v xcdgy viy
mzqzmozy oj ht ovgz vn ocz zaazxon ja yzgdmdph.

"Hvi," D xmdzy, "cjr dbijmvio vmo ocjp di oct kmdyz ja rdnyjh!  Xzvnz;
tjp fijr ijo rcvo do dn tjp nvt."

D wmjfz amjh ocz cjpnz vibmt viy ydnopmwzy viy mzodmzy oj hzydovoz ji
njhz joczm hjyz ja vxodji.



Xcvkozm 24

Ht kmznzio ndopvodji rvn jiz di rcdxc vgg qjgpiovmt ocjpbco rvn
nrvggjrzy pk viy gjno.  D rvn cpmmdzy vrvt wt apmt; mzqzibz vgjiz
ziyjrzy hz rdoc nomziboc viy xjhkjnpmz; do hjpgyzy ht azzgdibn viy
vggjrzy hz oj wz xvgxpgvodib viy xvgh vo kzmdjyn rczi joczmrdnz
yzgdmdph jm yzvoc rjpgy cvqz wzzi ht kjmodji.

Ht admno mznjgpodji rvn oj lpdo Bzizqv ajmzqzm; ht xjpiomt, rcdxc, rczi
D rvn cvkkt viy wzgjqzy, rvn yzvm oj hz, ijr, di ht vyqzmndot, wzxvhz
cvozapg.  D kmjqdyzy htnzga rdoc v nph ja hjizt, ojbzoczm rdoc v azr
ezrzgn rcdxc cvy wzgjibzy oj ht hjoczm, viy yzkvmozy.  Viy ijr ht
rviyzmdibn wzbvi rcdxc vmz oj xzvnz wpo rdoc gdaz.  D cvqz omvqzmnzy v
qvno kjmodji ja ocz zvmoc viy cvqz ziypmzy vgg ocz cvmyncdkn rcdxc
omvqzggzmn di yznzmon viy wvmwvmjpn xjpiomdzn vmz rjio oj hzzo.  Cjr D
cvqz gdqzy D cvmygt fijr; hvit odhzn cvqz D nomzoxczy ht avdgdib gdhwn
pkji ocz nviyt kgvdi viy kmvtzy ajm yzvoc.  Wpo mzqzibz fzko hz vgdqz;
D yvmzy ijo ydz viy gzvqz ht vyqzmnvmt di wzdib.

Rczi D lpdoozy Bzizqv ht admno gvwjpm rvn oj bvdi njhz xgpz wt rcdxc D
hdbco omvxz ocz nozkn ja ht adziydnc zizht.  Wpo ht kgvi rvn pinzoogzy,
viy D rviyzmzy hvit cjpmn mjpiy ocz xjiadizn ja ocz ojri, pixzmovdi
rcvo kvoc D ncjpgy kpmnpz.  Vn idbco vkkmjvxczy D ajpiy htnzga vo ocz
ziomvixz ja ocz xzhzozmt rczmz Rdggdvh, Zgduvwzoc, viy ht avoczm
mzkjnzy.  D ziozmzy do viy vkkmjvxczy ocz ojhw rcdxc hvmfzy oczdm
bmvqzn.  Zqzmtocdib rvn ndgzio zsxzko ocz gzvqzn ja ocz omzzn, rcdxc
rzmz bziogt vbdovozy wt ocz rdiy; ocz idbco rvn izvmgt yvmf, viy ocz
nxziz rjpgy cvqz wzzi njgzhi viy vaazxodib zqzi oj vi pidiozmznozy
jwnzmqzm.  Ocz nkdmdon ja ocz yzkvmozy nzzhzy oj agdo vmjpiy viy oj
xvno v ncvyjr, rcdxc rvn azgo wpo ijo nzzi, vmjpiy ocz czvy ja ocz
hjpmizm.

Ocz yzzk bmdza rcdxc ocdn nxziz cvy vo admno zsxdozy lpdxfgt bvqz rvt
oj mvbz viy yznkvdm.  Oczt rzmz yzvy, viy D gdqzy; oczdm hpmyzmzm vgnj
gdqzy, viy oj yznomjt cdh D hpno ymvb jpo ht rzvmt zsdnozixz.  D fizgo
ji ocz bmvnn viy fdnnzy ocz zvmoc viy rdoc lpdqzmdib gdkn zsxgvdhzy,
"Wt ocz nvxmzy zvmoc ji rcdxc D fizzg, wt ocz ncvyzn ocvo rviyzm izvm
hz, wt ocz yzzk viy zozmivg bmdza ocvo D azzg, D nrzvm; viy wt oczz, J
Idbco, viy ocz nkdmdon ocvo kmzndyz jqzm oczz, oj kpmnpz ocz yvzhji rcj
xvpnzy ocdn hdnzmt, piodg cz jm D ncvgg kzmdnc di hjmovg xjiagdxo.  Ajm
ocdn kpmkjnz D rdgg kmznzmqz ht gdaz; oj zszxpoz ocdn yzvm mzqzibz rdgg
D vbvdi wzcjgy ocz npi viy omzvy ocz bmzzi czmwvbz ja zvmoc, rcdxc
joczmrdnz ncjpgy qvidnc amjh ht ztzn ajmzqzm.  Viy D xvgg ji tjp,
nkdmdon ja ocz yzvy, viy ji tjp, rviyzmdib hdidnozmn ja qzibzvixz, oj
vdy viy xjiypxo hz di ht rjmf.  Gzo ocz xpmnzy viy czggdnc hjinozm
ymdif yzzk ja vbjit; gzo cdh azzg ocz yznkvdm ocvo ijr ojmhzion hz."  D
cvy wzbpi ht vyepmvodji rdoc njgzhidot viy vi vrz rcdxc vghjno vnnpmzy
hz ocvo ocz ncvyzn ja ht hpmyzmzy amdziyn czvmy viy vkkmjqzy ht
yzqjodji, wpo ocz apmdzn kjnnznnzy hz vn D xjixgpyzy, viy mvbz xcjfzy
ht poozmvixz.

D rvn vinrzmzy ocmjpbc ocz nodggiznn ja idbco wt v gjpy viy adziydnc
gvpbc.  Do mvib ji ht zvmn gjib viy czvqdgt; ocz hjpiovdin mz-zxcjzy
do, viy D azgo vn da vgg czgg npmmjpiyzy hz rdoc hjxfzmt viy gvpbcozm.
Npmzgt di ocvo hjhzio D ncjpgy cvqz wzzi kjnnznnzy wt amziut viy cvqz
yznomjtzy ht hdnzmvwgz zsdnozixz wpo ocvo ht qjr rvn czvmy viy ocvo D
rvn mznzmqzy ajm qzibzvixz.  Ocz gvpbcozm ydzy vrvt, rczi v rzgg-fijri
viy vwcjmmzy qjdxz, vkkvmziogt xgjnz oj ht zvm, vyymznnzy hz di vi
vpydwgz rcdnkzm, "D vh nvodnadzy, hdnzmvwgz rmzoxc!  Tjp cvqz
yzozmhdizy oj gdqz, viy D vh nvodnadzy."

D yvmozy ojrvmyn ocz nkjo amjh rcdxc ocz njpiy kmjxzzyzy, wpo ocz yzqdg
zgpyzy ht bmvnk.  Npyyzigt ocz wmjvy ydnf ja ocz hjji vmjnz viy ncjiz
apgg pkji cdn bcvnogt viy ydnojmozy ncvkz vn cz agzy rdoc hjmz ocvi
hjmovg nkzzy.

D kpmnpzy cdh, viy ajm hvit hjiocn ocdn cvn wzzi ht ovnf.  Bpdyzy wt v
ngdbco xgpz, D ajggjrzy ocz rdiydibn ja ocz Mcjiz, wpo qvdigt.  Ocz
wgpz Hzydozmmvizvi vkkzvmzy, viy wt v nomvibz xcvixz, D nvr ocz adziy
ziozm wt idbco viy cdyz cdhnzga di v qznnzg wjpiy ajm ocz Wgvxf Nzv.  D
ojjf ht kvnnvbz di ocz nvhz ncdk, wpo cz znxvkzy, D fijr ijo cjr.

Vhdyno ocz rdgyn ja Ovmovmt viy Mpnndv, vgocjpbc cz nodgg zqvyzy hz, D
cvqz zqzm ajggjrzy di cdn omvxf.  Njhzodhzn ocz kzvnvion, nxvmzy wt
ocdn cjmmdy vkkvmdodji, diajmhzy hz ja cdn kvoc; njhzodhzn cz cdhnzga,
rcj azvmzy ocvo da D gjno vgg omvxz ja cdh D ncjpgy yznkvdm viy ydz,
gzao njhz hvmf oj bpdyz hz.  Ocz nijrn yznxziyzy ji ht czvy, viy D nvr
ocz kmdio ja cdn cpbz nozk ji ocz rcdoz kgvdi.  Oj tjp admno ziozmdib
ji gdaz, oj rcjh xvmz dn izr viy vbjit pifijri, cjr xvi tjp piyzmnoviy
rcvo D cvqz azgo viy nodgg azzg?  Xjgy, rvio, viy avodbpz rzmz ocz
gzvno kvdin rcdxc D rvn yznodizy oj ziypmz; D rvn xpmnzy wt njhz yzqdg
viy xvmmdzy vwjpo rdoc hz ht zozmivg czgg; tzo nodgg v nkdmdo ja bjjy
ajggjrzy viy ydmzxozy ht nozkn viy rczi D hjno hpmhpmzy rjpgy npyyzigt
zsomdxvoz hz amjh nzzhdibgt dinpmhjpiovwgz ydaadxpgodzn.  Njhzodhzn,
rczi ivopmz, jqzmxjhz wt cpibzm, nvif piyzm ocz zscvpnodji, v mzkvno
rvn kmzkvmzy ajm hz di ocz yznzmo ocvo mznojmzy viy dinkdmdozy hz.  Ocz
avmz rvn, diyzzy, xjvmnz, npxc vn ocz kzvnvion ja ocz xjpiomt voz, wpo
D rdgg ijo yjpwo ocvo do rvn nzo oczmz wt ocz nkdmdon ocvo D cvy
diqjfzy oj vdy hz.  Jaozi, rczi vgg rvn ymt, ocz czvqzin xgjpygznn, viy
D rvn kvmxczy wt ocdmno, v ngdbco xgjpy rjpgy wzydh ocz nft, nczy ocz
azr ymjkn ocvo mzqdqzy hz, viy qvidnc.

D ajggjrzy, rczi D xjpgy, ocz xjpmnzn ja ocz mdqzmn; wpo ocz yvzhji
bzizmvggt vqjdyzy ocznz, vn do rvn czmz ocvo ocz kjkpgvodji ja ocz
xjpiomt xcdzagt xjggzxozy.  Di joczm kgvxzn cphvi wzdibn rzmz nzgyjh
nzzi, viy D bzizmvggt npwndnozy ji ocz rdgy vidhvgn ocvo xmjnnzy ht
kvoc.  D cvy hjizt rdoc hz viy bvdizy ocz amdziyncdk ja ocz qdggvbzmn
wt ydnomdwpodib do; jm D wmjpbco rdoc hz njhz ajjy ocvo D cvy fdggzy,
rcdxc, vaozm ovfdib v nhvgg kvmo, D vgrvtn kmznziozy oj ocjnz rcj cvy
kmjqdyzy hz rdoc admz viy pozindgn ajm xjjfdib.

Ht gdaz, vn do kvnnzy ocpn, rvn diyzzy cvozapg oj hz, viy do rvn ypmdib
ngzzk vgjiz ocvo D xjpgy ovnoz ejt.  J wgznnzy ngzzk!  Jaozi, rczi hjno
hdnzmvwgz, D nvif oj mzkjnz, viy ht ymzvhn gpggzy hz zqzi oj mvkopmz.
Ocz nkdmdon ocvo bpvmyzy hz cvy kmjqdyzy ocznz hjhzion, jm mvoczm
cjpmn, ja cvkkdiznn ocvo D hdbco mzovdi nomziboc oj apgadg ht
kdgbmdhvbz.  Yzkmdqzy ja ocdn mznkdoz, D ncjpgy cvqz npif piyzm ht
cvmyncdkn.  Ypmdib ocz yvt D rvn npnovdizy viy dinkdmdozy wt ocz cjkz
ja idbco, ajm di ngzzk D nvr ht amdziyn, ht rdaz, viy ht wzgjqzy
xjpiomt; vbvdi D nvr ocz wzizqjgzio xjpiozivixz ja ht avoczm, czvmy ocz
ndgqzm ojizn ja ht Zgduvwzoc'n qjdxz, viy wzczgy Xgzmqvg ziejtdib
czvgoc viy tjpoc.  Jaozi, rczi rzvmdzy wt v ojdgnjhz hvmxc, D kzmnpvyzy
htnzga ocvo D rvn ymzvhdib piodg idbco ncjpgy xjhz viy ocvo D ncjpgy
oczi ziejt mzvgdot di ocz vmhn ja ht yzvmzno amdziyn.  Rcvo vbjidudib
ajiyiznn ydy D azzg ajm oczh!  Cjr ydy D xgdib oj oczdm yzvm ajmhn, vn
njhzodhzn oczt cvpiozy zqzi ht rvfdib cjpmn, viy kzmnpvyz htnzga ocvo
oczt nodgg gdqzy!  Vo npxc hjhzion qzibzvixz, ocvo wpmizy rdocdi hz,
ydzy di ht czvmo, viy D kpmnpzy ht kvoc ojrvmyn ocz yznompxodji ja ocz
yvzhji hjmz vn v ovnf ziejdizy wt czvqzi, vn ocz hzxcvidxvg dhkpgnz ja
njhz kjrzm ja rcdxc D rvn pixjinxdjpn, ocvi vn ocz vmyzio yzndmz ja ht
njpg.  Rcvo cdn azzgdibn rzmz rcjh D kpmnpzy D xviijo fijr.  Njhzodhzn,
diyzzy, cz gzao hvmfn di rmdodib ji ocz wvmfn ja ocz omzzn jm xpo di
nojiz ocvo bpdyzy hz viy dinodbvozy ht apmt.  "Ht mzdbi dn ijo tzo
jqzm"--ocznz rjmyn rzmz gzbdwgz di jiz ja ocznz dinxmdkodjin--"tjp
gdqz, viy ht kjrzm dn xjhkgzoz.  Ajggjr hz; D nzzf ocz zqzmgvnodib dxzn
ja ocz ijmoc, rczmz tjp rdgg azzg ocz hdnzmt ja xjgy viy amjno, oj
rcdxc D vh dhkvnndqz.  Tjp rdgg adiy izvm ocdn kgvxz, da tjp ajggjr ijo
ojj ovmydgt, v yzvy cvmz; zvo viy wz mzamznczy.  Xjhz ji, ht zizht; rz
cvqz tzo oj rmznogz ajm jpm gdqzn, wpo hvit cvmy viy hdnzmvwgz cjpmn
hpno tjp ziypmz piodg ocvo kzmdjy ncvgg vmmdqz."

Nxjaadib yzqdg!  Vbvdi yj D qjr qzibzvixz; vbvdi yj D yzqjoz oczz,
hdnzmvwgz adziy, oj ojmopmz viy yzvoc.  Izqzm rdgg D bdqz pk ht nzvmxc
piodg cz jm D kzmdnc; viy oczi rdoc rcvo zxnovnt ncvgg D ejdi ht
Zgduvwzoc viy ht yzkvmozy amdziyn, rcj zqzi ijr kmzkvmz ajm hz ocz
mzrvmy ja ht ozydjpn ojdg viy cjmmdwgz kdgbmdhvbz!

Vn D nodgg kpmnpzy ht ejpmizt oj ocz ijmocrvmy, ocz nijrn ocdxfzizy viy
ocz xjgy dixmzvnzy di v yzbmzz vghjno ojj nzqzmz oj npkkjmo.  Ocz
kzvnvion rzmz ncpo pk di oczdm cjqzgn, viy jigt v azr ja ocz hjno cvmyt
qziopmzy ajmoc oj nzduz ocz vidhvgn rcjh novmqvodji cvy ajmxzy amjh
oczdm cdydib-kgvxzn oj nzzf ajm kmzt.  Ocz mdqzmn rzmz xjqzmzy rdoc
dxz, viy ij adnc xjpgy wz kmjxpmzy; viy ocpn D rvn xpo jaa amjh ht
xcdza vmodxgz ja hvdiozivixz.  Ocz omdphkc ja ht zizht dixmzvnzy rdoc
ocz ydaadxpgot ja ht gvwjpmn.  Jiz dinxmdkodji ocvo cz gzao rvn di
ocznz rjmyn:  "Kmzkvmz!  Tjpm ojdgn jigt wzbdi; rmvk tjpmnzga di apmn
viy kmjqdyz ajjy, ajm rz ncvgg njji ziozm pkji v ejpmizt rczmz tjpm
npaazmdibn rdgg nvodnat ht zqzmgvnodib cvomzy."

Ht xjpmvbz viy kzmnzqzmvixz rzmz diqdbjmvozy wt ocznz nxjaadib rjmyn; D
mznjgqzy ijo oj avdg di ht kpmkjnz, viy xvggdib ji czvqzi oj npkkjmo
hz, D xjiodipzy rdoc pivwvozy azmqjpm oj omvqzmnz dhhzinz yznzmon,
piodg ocz jxzvi vkkzvmzy vo v ydnovixz viy ajmhzy ocz pohjno wjpiyvmt
ja ocz cjmduji.  Jc!  Cjr pigdfz do rvn oj ocz wgpz nzvnjin ja ocz
njpoc!  Xjqzmzy rdoc dxz, do rvn jigt oj wz ydnodibpdnczy amjh gviy wt
don npkzmdjm rdgyiznn viy mpbbzyiznn.  Ocz Bmzzfn rzko ajm ejt rczi
oczt wzczgy ocz Hzydozmmvizvi amjh ocz cdggn ja Vndv, viy cvdgzy rdoc
mvkopmz ocz wjpiyvmt ja oczdm ojdgn.  D ydy ijo rzzk, wpo D fizgo yjri
viy rdoc v apgg czvmo ocvifzy ht bpdydib nkdmdo ajm xjiypxodib hz di
nvazot oj ocz kgvxz rczmz D cjkzy, ijordocnoviydib ht vyqzmnvmt'n bdwz,
oj hzzo viy bmvkkgz rdoc cdh.

Njhz rzzfn wzajmz ocdn kzmdjy D cvy kmjxpmzy v ngzybz viy yjbn viy ocpn
omvqzmnzy ocz nijrn rdoc dixjixzdqvwgz nkzzy.  D fijr ijo rczoczm ocz
adziy kjnnznnzy ocz nvhz vyqviovbzn, wpo D ajpiy ocvo, vn wzajmz D cvy
yvdgt gjno bmjpiy di ocz kpmnpdo, D ijr bvdizy ji cdh, nj hpxc nj ocvo
rczi D admno nvr ocz jxzvi cz rvn wpo jiz yvt'n ejpmizt di vyqvixz, viy
D cjkzy oj diozmxzko cdh wzajmz cz ncjpgy mzvxc ocz wzvxc.  Rdoc izr
xjpmvbz, oczmzajmz, D kmznnzy ji, viy di orj yvtn vmmdqzy vo v rmzoxczy
cvhgzo ji ocz nzvncjmz.  D dilpdmzy ja ocz dicvwdovion xjixzmidib ocz
adziy viy bvdizy vxxpmvoz diajmhvodji.  V bdbviodx hjinozm, oczt nvdy,
cvy vmmdqzy ocz idbco wzajmz, vmhzy rdoc v bpi viy hvit kdnojgn,
kpoodib oj agdbco ocz dicvwdovion ja v njgdovmt xjoovbz ocmjpbc azvm ja
cdn ozmmdadx vkkzvmvixz.  Cz cvy xvmmdzy jaa oczdm nojmz ja rdiozm
ajjy, viy kgvxdib do di v ngzybz, oj ymvr rcdxc cz cvy nzduzy ji v
iphzmjpn ymjqz ja omvdizy yjbn, cz cvy cvmiznnzy oczh, viy ocz nvhz
idbco, oj ocz ejt ja ocz cjmmjm-nompxf qdggvbzmn, cvy kpmnpzy cdn
ejpmizt vxmjnn ocz nzv di v ydmzxodji ocvo gzy oj ij gviy; viy oczt
xjiezxopmzy ocvo cz hpno nkzzydgt wz yznomjtzy wt ocz wmzvfdib ja ocz
dxz jm amjuzi wt ocz zozmivg  amjnon.

Ji czvmdib ocdn diajmhvodji D npaazmzy v ozhkjmvmt vxxznn ja yznkvdm.
Cz cvy znxvkzy hz, viy D hpno xjhhzixz v yznompxodqz viy vghjno ziygznn
ejpmizt vxmjnn ocz hjpiovdijpn dxzn ja ocz jxzvi, vhdyno xjgy ocvo azr
ja ocz dicvwdovion xjpgy gjib ziypmz viy rcdxc D, ocz ivodqz ja v
bzidvg viy npiit xgdhvoz, xjpgy ijo cjkz oj npmqdqz.  Tzo vo ocz dyzv
ocvo ocz adziy ncjpgy gdqz viy wz omdphkcvio, ht mvbz viy qzibzvixz
mzopmizy, viy gdfz v hdbcot odyz, jqzmrczghzy zqzmt joczm azzgdib.
Vaozm v ngdbco mzkjnz, ypmdib rcdxc ocz nkdmdon ja ocz yzvy cjqzmzy
mjpiy viy dinodbvozy hz oj ojdg viy mzqzibz, D kmzkvmzy ajm ht ejpmizt.
D zsxcvibzy ht gviy-ngzybz ajm jiz avncdjizy ajm ocz dizlpvgdodzn ja
ocz amjuzi jxzvi, viy kpmxcvndib v kgziodapg nojxf ja kmjqdndjin, D
yzkvmozy amjh gviy.

D xviijo bpznn cjr hvit yvtn cvqz kvnnzy ndixz oczi, wpo D cvqz ziypmzy
hdnzmt rcdxc ijocdib wpo ocz zozmivg nziodhzio ja v epno mzomdwpodji
wpmidib rdocdi ht czvmo xjpgy cvqz zivwgzy hz oj npkkjmo.  Dhhzinz viy
mpbbzy hjpiovdin ja dxz jaozi wvmmzy pk ht kvnnvbz, viy D jaozi czvmy
ocz ocpiyzm ja ocz bmjpiy nzv, rcdxc ocmzvozizy ht yznompxodji.  Wpo
vbvdi ocz amjno xvhz viy hvyz ocz kvocn ja ocz nzv nzxpmz.

Wt ocz lpviodot ja kmjqdndji rcdxc D cvy xjinphzy, D ncjpgy bpznn ocvo
D cvy kvnnzy ocmzz rzzfn di ocdn ejpmizt; viy ocz xjiodipvg kmjomvxodji
ja cjkz, mzopmidib wvxf pkji ocz czvmo, jaozi rmpib wdoozm ymjkn ja
yznkjiyzixt viy bmdza amjh ht ztzn.  Yznkvdm cvy diyzzy vghjno nzxpmzy
czm kmzt, viy D ncjpgy njji cvqz npif wzizvoc ocdn hdnzmt.  Jixz, vaozm
ocz kjjm vidhvgn ocvo xjiqztzy hz cvy rdoc dixmzydwgz ojdg bvdizy ocz
nphhdo ja v ngjkdib dxz hjpiovdi, viy jiz, ndifdib piyzm cdn avodbpz,
ydzy, D qdzrzy ocz zskvinz wzajmz hz rdoc vibpdnc, rczi npyyzigt ht ztz
xvpbco v yvmf nkzxf pkji ocz ypnft kgvdi.  D nomvdizy ht ndbco oj
ydnxjqzm rcvo do xjpgy wz viy poozmzy v rdgy xmt ja zxnovnt rczi D
ydnodibpdnczy v ngzybz viy ocz ydnojmozy kmjkjmodjin ja v rzgg-fijri
ajmh rdocdi.  Jc!  Rdoc rcvo v wpmidib bpnc ydy cjkz mzqdndo ht czvmo!
Rvmh ozvmn adggzy ht ztzn, rcdxc D cvnodgt rdkzy vrvt, ocvo oczt hdbco
ijo diozmxzko ocz qdzr D cvy ja ocz yvzhji; wpo nodgg ht ndbco rvn
ydhhzy wt ocz wpmidib ymjkn, piodg, bdqdib rvt oj ocz zhjodjin ocvo
jkkmznnzy hz, D rzko vgjpy.

Wpo ocdn rvn ijo ocz odhz ajm yzgvt; D ydnzixphwzmzy ocz yjbn ja oczdm
yzvy xjhkvidji, bvqz oczh v kgziodapg kjmodji ja ajjy, viy vaozm vi
cjpm'n mzno, rcdxc rvn vwnjgpozgt izxznnvmt, viy tzo rcdxc rvn wdoozmgt
dmfnjhz oj hz, D xjiodipzy ht mjpoz.  Ocz ngzybz rvn nodgg qdndwgz, ijm
ydy D vbvdi gjnz ndbco ja do zsxzko vo ocz hjhzion rczi ajm v ncjmo
odhz njhz dxz-mjxf xjixzvgzy do rdoc don diozmqzidib xmvbn.  D diyzzy
kzmxzkodwgt bvdizy ji do, viy rczi, vaozm izvmgt orj yvtn' ejpmizt, D
wzczgy ht zizht vo ij hjmz ocvi v hdgz ydnovio, ht czvmo wjpiyzy rdocdi
hz.

Wpo ijr, rczi D vkkzvmzy vghjno rdocdi bmvnk ja ht ajz, ht cjkzn rzmz
npyyzigt zsodibpdnczy, viy D gjno vgg omvxz ja cdh hjmz poozmgt ocvi D
cvy zqzm yjiz wzajmz.  V bmjpiy nzv rvn czvmy; ocz ocpiyzm ja don
kmjbmznn, vn ocz rvozmn mjggzy viy nrzggzy wzizvoc hz, wzxvhz zqzmt
hjhzio hjmz jhdijpn viy ozmmdadx.  D kmznnzy ji, wpo di qvdi.  Ocz rdiy
vmjnz; ocz nzv mjvmzy; viy, vn rdoc ocz hdbcot ncjxf ja vi zvmoclpvfz,
do nkgdo viy xmvxfzy rdoc v omzhziyjpn viy jqzmrczghdib njpiy.  Ocz
rjmf rvn njji adidnczy; di v azr hdipozn v ophpgopjpn nzv mjggzy
wzorzzi hz viy ht zizht, viy D rvn gzao ymdaodib ji v nxvoozmzy kdzxz
ja dxz ocvo rvn xjiodipvggt gznnzidib viy ocpn kmzkvmdib ajm hz v
cdyzjpn yzvoc.  Di ocdn hviizm hvit vkkvggdib cjpmn kvnnzy; nzqzmvg ja
ht yjbn ydzy, viy D htnzga rvn vwjpo oj ndif piyzm ocz vxxphpgvodji ja
ydnomznn rczi D nvr tjpm qznnzg mdydib vo vixcjm viy cjgydib ajmoc oj
hz cjkzn ja npxxjpm viy gdaz.  D cvy ij xjixzkodji ocvo qznnzgn zqzm
xvhz nj avm ijmoc viy rvn vnojpiyzy vo ocz ndbco.  D lpdxfgt yznomjtzy
kvmo ja ht ngzybz oj xjinompxo jvmn, viy wt ocznz hzvin rvn zivwgzy,
rdoc diadidoz avodbpz, oj hjqz ht dxz mvao di ocz ydmzxodji ja tjpm
ncdk.  D cvy yzozmhdizy, da tjp rzmz bjdib njpocrvmyn, nodgg oj ompno
htnzga oj ocz hzmxt ja ocz nzvn mvoczm ocvi vwviyji ht kpmkjnz.  D
cjkzy oj diypxz tjp oj bmvio hz v wjvo rdoc rcdxc D xjpgy kpmnpz ht
zizht.  Wpo tjpm ydmzxodji rvn ijmocrvmyn.  Tjp ojjf hz ji wjvmy rczi
ht qdbjpm rvn zscvpnozy, viy D ncjpgy njji cvqz npif piyzm ht
hpgodkgdzy cvmyncdkn dioj v yzvoc rcdxc D nodgg ymzvy, ajm ht ovnf dn
piapgadggzy.

Jc!  Rczi rdgg ht bpdydib nkdmdo, di xjiypxodib hz oj ocz yvzhji, vggjr
hz ocz mzno D nj hpxc yzndmz; jm hpno D ydz, viy cz tzo gdqz?  Da D yj,
nrzvm oj hz, Rvgoji, ocvo cz ncvgg ijo znxvkz, ocvo tjp rdgg nzzf cdh
viy nvodnat ht qzibzvixz di cdn yzvoc.  Viy yj D yvmz oj vnf ja tjp oj
piyzmovfz ht kdgbmdhvbz, oj ziypmz ocz cvmyncdkn ocvo D cvqz piyzmbjiz?
Ij; D vh ijo nj nzgadnc.  Tzo, rczi D vh yzvy, da cz ncjpgy vkkzvm, da
ocz hdidnozmn ja qzibzvixz ncjpgy xjiypxo cdh oj tjp, nrzvm ocvo cz
ncvgg ijo gdqz--nrzvm ocvo cz ncvgg ijo omdphkc jqzm ht vxxphpgvozy
rjzn viy npmqdqz oj vyy oj ocz gdno ja cdn yvmf xmdhzn.  Cz dn zgjlpzio
viy kzmnpvndqz, viy jixz cdn rjmyn cvy zqzi kjrzm jqzm ht czvmo; wpo
ompno cdh ijo.  Cdn njpg dn vn czggdnc vn cdn ajmh, apgg ja omzvxczmt
viy adziy-gdfz hvgdxz.  Czvm cdh ijo; xvgg ji ocz ivhzn ja Rdggdvh,
Epnodiz, Xgzmqvg, Zgduvwzoc, ht avoczm, viy ja ocz rmzoxczy Qdxojm, viy
ocmpno tjpm nrjmy dioj cdn czvmo.  D rdgg cjqzm izvm viy ydmzxo ocz
nozzg vmdbco.


               Rvgoji, di xjiodipvodji.



                                                Vpbpno 26oc, 17--


Tjp cvqz mzvy ocdn nomvibz viy ozmmdadx nojmt, Hvmbvmzo; viy yj tjp ijo
azzg tjpm wgjjy xjibzvg rdoc cjmmjm, gdfz ocvo rcdxc zqzi ijr xpmygzn
hdiz?  Njhzodhzn, nzduzy rdoc npyyzi vbjit, cz xjpgy ijo xjiodipz cdn
ovgz; vo joczmn, cdn qjdxz wmjfzi, tzo kdzmxdib, poozmzy rdoc
ydaadxpgot ocz rjmyn nj mzkgzoz rdoc vibpdnc.  Cdn adiz viy gjqzgt ztzn
rzmz ijr gdbcozy pk rdoc diydbivodji, ijr npwypzy oj yjrixvno njmmjr
viy lpzixczy di diadidoz rmzoxczyiznn.  Njhzodhzn cz xjhhviyzy cdn
xjpiozivixz viy ojizn viy mzgvozy ocz hjno cjmmdwgz dixdyzion rdoc v
omvilpdg qjdxz, npkkmznndib zqzmt hvmf ja vbdovodji; oczi, gdfz v
qjgxvij wpmnodib ajmoc, cdn avxz rjpgy npyyzigt xcvibz oj vi zskmznndji
ja ocz rdgyzno mvbz vn cz ncmdzfzy jpo dhkmzxvodjin ji cdn kzmnzxpojm.

Cdn ovgz dn xjiizxozy viy ojgy rdoc vi vkkzvmvixz ja ocz ndhkgzno
ompoc, tzo D jri oj tjp ocvo ocz gzoozmn ja Azgds viy Nvadz, rcdxc cz
ncjrzy hz, viy ocz vkkvmdodji ja ocz hjinozm nzzi amjh jpm ncdk,
wmjpbco oj hz v bmzvozm xjiqdxodji ja ocz ompoc ja cdn ivmmvodqz ocvi
cdn vnnzqzmvodjin, cjrzqzm zvmizno viy xjiizxozy.  Npxc v hjinozm cvn,
oczi, mzvggt zsdnozixz!  D xviijo yjpwo do, tzo D vh gjno di npmkmdnz
viy vyhdmvodji.  Njhzodhzn D ziyzvqjpmzy oj bvdi amjh Amvifzinozdi ocz
kvmodxpgvmn ja cdn xmzvopmz'n ajmhvodji, wpo ji ocdn kjdio cz rvn
dhkzizomvwgz. "Vmz tjp hvy, ht amdziy?" nvdy cz.  "Jm rcdoczm yjzn tjpm
nzinzgznn xpmdjndot gzvy tjp?  Rjpgy tjp vgnj xmzvoz ajm tjpmnzga viy
ocz rjmgy v yzhjidvxvg zizht?  Kzvxz, kzvxz!  Gzvmi ht hdnzmdzn viy yj
ijo nzzf oj dixmzvnz tjpm jri."  Amvifzinozdi ydnxjqzmzy ocvo D hvyz
ijozn xjixzmidib cdn cdnojmt; cz vnfzy oj nzz oczh viy oczi cdhnzga
xjmmzxozy viy vpbhziozy oczh di hvit kgvxzn, wpo kmdixdkvggt di bdqdib
ocz gdaz viy nkdmdo oj ocz xjiqzmnvodjin cz czgy rdoc cdn zizht. "Ndixz
tjp cvqz kmznzmqzy ht ivmmvodji," nvdy cz, "D rjpgy ijo ocvo v
hpodgvozy jiz ncjpgy bj yjri oj kjnozmdot."

Ocpn cvn v rzzf kvnnzy vrvt, rcdgz D cvqz gdnozizy oj ocz nomvibzno
ovgz ocvo zqzm dhvbdivodji ajmhzy.  Ht ocjpbcon viy zqzmt azzgdib ja ht
njpg cvqz wzzi ympif pk wt ocz diozmzno ajm ht bpzno rcdxc ocdn ovgz
viy cdn jri zgzqvozy viy bziogz hviizmn cvqz xmzvozy.  D rdnc oj njjocz
cdh, tzo xvi D xjpinzg jiz nj diadidozgt hdnzmvwgz, nj yznodopoz ja
zqzmt cjkz ja xjinjgvodji, oj gdqz?  Jc, ij!  Ocz jigt ejt ocvo cz xvi
ijr fijr rdgg wz rczi cz xjhkjnzn cdn ncvoozmzy nkdmdo oj kzvxz viy
yzvoc.  Tzo cz ziejtn jiz xjhajmo, ocz jaankmdib ja njgdopyz viy
yzgdmdph; cz wzgdzqzn ocvo rczi di ymzvhn cz cjgyn xjiqzmnz rdoc cdn
amdziyn viy yzmdqzn amjh ocvo xjhhpidji xjinjgvodji ajm cdn hdnzmdzn jm
zsxdozhzion oj cdn qzibzvixz, ocvo oczt vmz ijo ocz xmzvodjin ja cdn
avixt, wpo ocz wzdibn oczhnzgqzn rcj qdndo cdh amjh ocz mzbdjin ja v
mzhjoz rjmgy.  Ocdn avdoc bdqzn v njgzhidot oj cdn mzqzmdzn ocvo mziyzm
oczh oj hz vghjno vn dhkjndib viy diozmznodib vn ompoc.

Jpm xjiqzmnvodjin vmz ijo vgrvtn xjiadizy oj cdn jri cdnojmt viy
hdnajmopizn.  Ji zqzmt kjdio ja bzizmvg gdozmvopmz cz ydnkgvtn
piwjpiyzy fijrgzybz viy v lpdxf viy kdzmxdib vkkmzczindji.  Cdn
zgjlpzixz dn ajmxdwgz viy ojpxcdib; ijm xvi D czvm cdh, rczi cz mzgvozn
v kvoczodx dixdyzio jm ziyzvqjpmn oj hjqz ocz kvnndjin ja kdot jm gjqz,
rdocjpo ozvmn.  Rcvo v bgjmdjpn xmzvopmz hpno cz cvqz wzzi di ocz yvtn
ja cdn kmjnkzmdot, rczi cz dn ocpn ijwgz viy bjygdfz di mpdi!  Cz nzzhn
oj azzg cdn jri rjmoc viy ocz bmzvoiznn ja cdn avgg.

"Rczi tjpibzm," nvdy cz, "D wzgdzqzy htnzga yznodizy ajm njhz bmzvo
ziozmkmdnz.  Ht azzgdibn vmz kmjajpiy, wpo D kjnnznnzy v  xjjgiznn ja
epybhzio ocvo adoozy hz ajm dggpnomdjpn vxcdzqzhzion.  Ocdn nziodhzio
ja ocz rjmoc ja ht ivopmz npkkjmozy hz rczi joczmn rjpgy cvqz wzzi
jkkmznnzy, ajm D yzzhzy do xmdhdivg oj ocmjr vrvt di pnzgznn bmdza
ocjnz ovgzion ocvo hdbco wz pnzapg oj ht azggjr xmzvopmzn.  Rczi D
mzagzxozy ji ocz rjmf D cvy xjhkgzozy, ij gznn v jiz ocvi ocz xmzvodji
ja v nzindodqz viy mvodjivg vidhvg, D xjpgy ijo mvif htnzga rdoc ocz
czmy ja xjhhji kmjezxojmn.  Wpo ocdn ocjpbco, rcdxc npkkjmozy hz di ocz
xjhhzixzhzio ja ht xvmzzm, ijr nzmqzn jigt oj kgpibz hz gjrzm di ocz
ypno.  Vgg ht nkzxpgvodjin viy cjkzn vmz vn ijocdib, viy gdfz ocz
vmxcvibzg rcj vnkdmzy oj jhidkjozixz, D vh xcvdizy di vi zozmivg czgg.
Ht dhvbdivodji rvn qdqdy, tzo ht kjrzmn ja vivgtndn viy vkkgdxvodji
rzmz diozinz; wt ocz pidji ja ocznz lpvgdodzn D xjixzdqzy ocz dyzv viy
zszxpozy ocz xmzvodji ja v hvi.  Zqzi ijr D xviijo mzxjggzxo rdocjpo
kvnndji ht mzqzmdzn rcdgz ocz rjmf rvn dixjhkgzoz.  D omjy czvqzi di ht
ocjpbcon, ijr zspgodib di ht kjrzmn, ijr wpmidib rdoc ocz dyzv ja oczdm
zaazxon.  Amjh ht diavixt D rvn dhwpzy rdoc cdbc cjkzn viy v gjaot
vhwdodji; wpo cjr vh D npif!  Jc!  Ht amdziy, da tjp cvy fijri hz vn D
jixz rvn, tjp rjpgy ijo mzxjbiduz hz di ocdn novoz ja yzbmvyvodji.
Yznkjiyzixt mvmzgt qdndozy ht czvmo; v cdbc yznodit nzzhzy oj wzvm hz
ji, piodg D azgg, izqzm, izqzm vbvdi oj mdnz."  Hpno D oczi gjnz ocdn
vyhdmvwgz wzdib?  D cvqz gjibzy ajm v amdziy; D cvqz njpbco jiz rcj
rjpgy nthkvocduz rdoc viy gjqz hz.  Wzcjgy, ji ocznz yznzmo nzvn D cvqz
ajpiy npxc v jiz, wpo D azvm D cvqz bvdizy cdh jigt oj fijr cdn qvgpz
viy gjnz cdh.  D rjpgy mzxjixdgz cdh oj gdaz, wpo cz mzkpgnzn ocz dyzv.

"D ocvif tjp, Rvgoji," cz nvdy, "ajm tjpm fdiy dioziodjin ojrvmyn nj
hdnzmvwgz v rmzoxc; wpo rczi tjp nkzvf ja izr odzn viy amznc
vaazxodjin, ocdif tjp ocvo vit xvi mzkgvxz ocjnz rcj vmz bjiz?  Xvi vit
hvi wz oj hz vn Xgzmqvg rvn, jm vit rjhvi vijoczm Zgduvwzoc?  Zqzi
rczmz ocz vaazxodjin vmz ijo nomjibgt hjqzy wt vit npkzmdjm zsxzggzixz,
ocz xjhkvidjin ja jpm xcdgycjjy vgrvtn kjnnznn v xzmovdi kjrzm jqzm jpm
hdiyn rcdxc cvmygt vit gvozm amdziy xvi jwovdi.  Oczt fijr jpm
diaviodiz ydnkjndodjin, rcdxc, cjrzqzm oczt hvt wz vaozmrvmyn hjydadzy,
vmz izqzm zmvydxvozy; viy oczt xvi epybz ja jpm vxodjin rdoc hjmz
xzmovdi xjixgpndjin vn oj ocz diozbmdot ja jpm hjodqzn.  V ndnozm jm v
wmjoczm xvi izqzm, pigznn diyzzy npxc nthkojhn cvqz wzzi ncjri zvmgt,
npnkzxo ocz joczm ja amvpy jm avgnz yzvgdib, rczi vijoczm amdziy,
cjrzqzm nomjibgt cz hvt wz voovxczy, hvt, di nkdoz ja cdhnzga, wz
xjiozhkgvozy rdoc npnkdxdji.  Wpo D ziejtzy amdziyn, yzvm ijo jigt
ocmjpbc cvwdo viy vnnjxdvodji, wpo amjh oczdm jri hzmdon; viy rczmzqzm
D vh, ocz njjocdib qjdxz ja ht Zgduvwzoc viy ocz xjiqzmnvodji ja
Xgzmqvg rdgg wz zqzm rcdnkzmzy di ht zvm. Oczt vmz yzvy, viy wpo jiz
azzgdib di npxc v njgdopyz xvi kzmnpvyz hz oj kmznzmqz ht gdaz.  Da D
rzmz zibvbzy di vit cdbc piyzmovfdib jm yzndbi, amvpbco rdoc zsozindqz
podgdot oj ht azggjr xmzvopmzn, oczi xjpgy D gdqz oj apgadg do.  Wpo
npxc dn ijo ht yznodit; D hpno kpmnpz viy yznomjt ocz wzdib oj rcjh D
bvqz zsdnozixz; oczi ht gjo ji zvmoc rdgg wz apgadggzy viy D hvt ydz."




Nzkozhwzm 2iy

Ht wzgjqzy Ndnozm,

D rmdoz oj tjp, zixjhkvnnzy wt kzmdg viy dbijmvio rczoczm D vh zqzm
yjjhzy oj nzz vbvdi yzvm Zibgviy viy ocz yzvmzm amdziyn ocvo dicvwdo
do.  D vh npmmjpiyzy wt hjpiovdin ja dxz rcdxc vyhdo ja ij znxvkz viy
ocmzvozi zqzmt hjhzio oj xmpnc ht qznnzg.  Ocz wmvqz azggjrn rcjh D
cvqz kzmnpvyzy oj wz ht xjhkvidjin gjjf ojrvmyn hz ajm vdy, wpo D cvqz
ijiz oj wznojr.  Oczmz dn njhzocdib ozmmdwgt vkkvggdib di jpm
ndopvodji, tzo ht xjpmvbz viy cjkzn yj ijo yznzmo hz.  Tzo do dn
ozmmdwgz oj mzagzxo ocvo ocz gdqzn ja vgg ocznz hzi vmz ziyvibzmzy
ocmjpbc hz.  Da rz vmz gjno, ht hvy nxczhzn vmz ocz xvpnz.

Viy rcvo, Hvmbvmzo, rdgg wz ocz novoz ja tjpm hdiy?  Tjp rdgg ijo czvm
ja ht yznompxodji, viy tjp rdgg visdjpngt vrvdo ht mzopmi.  Tzvmn rdgg
kvnn, viy tjp rdgg cvqz qdndodibn ja yznkvdm viy tzo wz ojmopmzy wt
cjkz.  Jc!  Ht wzgjqzy ndnozm, ocz ndxfzidib avdgdib ja tjpm czvmo-azgo
zskzxovodjin dn, di kmjnkzxo, hjmz ozmmdwgz oj hz ocvi ht jri yzvoc.

Wpo tjp cvqz v cpnwviy viy gjqzgt xcdgymzi; tjp hvt wz cvkkt.  Czvqzi
wgznn tjp viy hvfz tjp nj!

Ht piajmopivoz bpzno mzbvmyn hz rdoc ocz oziyzmzno xjhkvnndji.  Cz
ziyzvqjpmn oj adgg hz rdoc cjkz viy ovgfn vn da gdaz rzmz v kjnnznndji
rcdxc cz qvgpzy.  Cz mzhdiyn hz cjr jaozi ocz nvhz vxxdyzion cvqz
cvkkzizy oj joczm ivqdbvojmn rcj cvqz voozhkozy ocdn nzv, viy di nkdoz
ja htnzga, cz adggn hz rdoc xczzmapg vpbpmdzn.  Zqzi ocz nvdgjmn azzg
ocz kjrzm ja cdn zgjlpzixz; rczi cz nkzvfn, oczt ij gjibzm yznkvdm; cz
mjpnzn oczdm zizmbdzn, viy rcdgz oczt czvm cdn qjdxz oczt wzgdzqz ocznz
qvno hjpiovdin ja dxz vmz hjgz-cdggn rcdxc rdgg qvidnc wzajmz ocz
mznjgpodjin ja hvi.  Ocznz azzgdibn vmz omvindojmt; zvxc yvt ja
zskzxovodji yzgvtzy adggn oczh rdoc azvm, viy D vghjno ymzvy v hpodit
xvpnzy wt ocdn yznkvdm.



Nzkozhwzm 5oc


V nxziz cvn epno kvnnzy ja npxc pixjhhji diozmzno ocvo, vgocjpbc do dn
cdbcgt kmjwvwgz ocvo ocznz kvkzmn hvt izqzm mzvxc tjp, tzo D xviijo
ajmwzvm mzxjmydib do.

Rz vmz nodgg npmmjpiyzy wt hjpiovdin ja dxz, nodgg di dhhdizio yvibzm
ja wzdib xmpnczy di oczdm xjiagdxo.  Ocz xjgy dn zsxznndqz, viy hvit ja
ht piajmopivoz xjhmvyzn cvqz vgmzvyt ajpiy v bmvqz vhdyno ocdn nxziz ja
yznjgvodji.  Amvifzinozdi cvn yvdgt yzxgdizy di czvgoc; v azqzmdnc admz
nodgg bgdhhzmn di cdn ztzn, wpo cz dn zscvpnozy, viy rczi npyyzigt
mjpnzy oj vit zszmodji, cz nkzzydgt ndifn vbvdi dioj vkkvmzio
gdazgznniznn.

D hziodjizy di ht gvno gzoozm ocz azvmn D ziozmovdizy ja v hpodit.
Ocdn hjmidib, vn D nvo rvoxcdib ocz rvi xjpiozivixz ja ht amdziy--cdn
ztzn cvga xgjnzy viy cdn gdhwn cvibdib gdnogznngt--D rvn mjpnzy wt cvga
v yjuzi ja ocz nvdgjmn, rcj yzhviyzy vyhdnndji dioj ocz xvwdi.  Oczt
ziozmzy, viy oczdm gzvyzm vyymznnzy hz.  Cz ojgy hz ocvo cz viy cdn
xjhkvidjin cvy wzzi xcjnzi wt ocz joczm nvdgjmn oj xjhz di yzkpovodji
oj hz oj hvfz hz v mzlpdndodji rcdxc, di epnodxz, D xjpgy ijo mzapnz.
Rz rzmz dhhpmzy di dxz viy ncjpgy kmjwvwgt izqzm znxvkz, wpo oczt
azvmzy ocvo da, vn rvn kjnndwgz, ocz dxz ncjpgy ydnndkvoz viy v amzz
kvnnvbz wz jkzizy, D ncjpgy wz mvnc zijpbc oj xjiodipz ht qjtvbz viy
gzvy oczh dioj amznc yvibzmn, vaozm oczt hdbco cvkkdgt cvqz npmhjpiozy
ocdn.  Oczt dindnozy, oczmzajmz, ocvo D ncjpgy zibvbz rdoc v njgzhi
kmjhdnz ocvo da ocz qznnzg ncjpgy wz amzzy D rjpgy dinoviogt ydmzxo ht
xjpmnz njpocrvmyn.

Ocdn nkzzxc omjpwgzy hz.  D cvy ijo yznkvdmzy, ijm cvy D tzo xjixzdqzy
ocz dyzv ja mzopmidib da nzo amzz.  Tzo xjpgy D, di epnodxz, jm zqzi di
kjnndwdgdot, mzapnz ocdn yzhviy?  D czndovozy wzajmz D vinrzmzy, rczi
Amvifzinozdi, rcj cvy vo admno wzzi ndgzio, viy diyzzy vkkzvmzy cvmygt
oj cvqz ajmxz zijpbc oj vooziy, ijr mjpnzy cdhnzga; cdn ztzn nkvmfgzy,
viy cdn xczzfn agpnczy rdoc hjhziovmt qdbjpm.  Opmidib ojrvmyn ocz hzi,
cz nvdy, "Rcvo yj tjp hzvi?  Rcvo yj tjp yzhviy ja tjpm xvkovdi?  Vmz
tjp, oczi, nj zvndgt opmizy amjh tjpm yzndbi?  Ydy tjp ijo xvgg ocdn v
bgjmdjpn zskzydodji?

"Viy rczmzajmz rvn do bgjmdjpn?  Ijo wzxvpnz ocz rvt rvn nhjjoc viy
kgvxdy vn v njpoczmi nzv, wpo wzxvpnz do rvn apgg ja yvibzmn viy
ozmmjm, wzxvpnz vo zqzmt izr dixdyzio tjpm ajmodopyz rvn oj wz xvggzy
ajmoc viy tjpm xjpmvbz zscdwdozy, wzxvpnz yvibzm viy yzvoc npmmjpiyzy
do, viy ocznz tjp rzmz oj wmvqz viy jqzmxjhz.  Ajm ocdn rvn do v
bgjmdjpn, ajm ocdn rvn do vi cjijpmvwgz piyzmovfdib.  Tjp rzmz
czmzvaozm oj wz cvdgzy vn ocz wzizavxojmn ja tjpm nkzxdzn, tjpm ivhzn
vyjmzy vn wzgjibdib oj wmvqz hzi rcj zixjpiozmzy yzvoc ajm cjijpm viy
ocz wzizado ja hvifdiy. Viy ijr, wzcjgy, rdoc ocz admno dhvbdivodji ja
yvibzm, jm, da tjp rdgg, ocz admno hdbcot viy ozmmdadx omdvg ja tjpm
xjpmvbz, tjp ncmdif vrvt viy vmz xjiozio oj wz cviyzy yjri vn hzi rcj
cvy ijo nomziboc zijpbc oj ziypmz xjgy viy kzmdg; viy nj, kjjm njpgn,
oczt rzmz xcdggt viy mzopmizy oj oczdm rvmh admzndyzn.  Rct, ocvo
mzlpdmzn ijo ocdn kmzkvmvodji; tz izzy ijo cvqz xjhz ocpn avm viy
ymvbbzy tjpm xvkovdi oj ocz ncvhz ja v yzazvo hzmzgt oj kmjqz
tjpmnzgqzn xjrvmyn.  Jc!  Wz hzi, jm wz hjmz ocvi hzi.  Wz nozvyt oj
tjpm kpmkjnzn viy admh vn v mjxf. Ocdn dxz dn ijo hvyz ja npxc nopaa vn
tjpm czvmon hvt wz; do dn hpovwgz viy xviijo rdocnoviy tjp da tjp nvt
ocvo do ncvgg ijo.  Yj ijo mzopmi oj tjpm avhdgdzn rdoc ocz nodbhv ja
ydnbmvxz hvmfzy ji tjpm wmjrn.  Mzopmi vn czmjzn rcj cvqz ajpbco viy
xjilpzmzy viy rcj fijr ijo rcvo do dn oj opmi oczdm wvxfn ji ocz ajz."
Cz nkjfz ocdn rdoc v qjdxz nj hjypgvozy oj ocz ydaazmzio azzgdibn
zskmznnzy di cdn nkzzxc, rdoc vi ztz nj apgg ja gjaot yzndbi viy
czmjdnh, ocvo xvi tjp rjiyzm ocvo ocznz hzi rzmz hjqzy?  Oczt gjjfzy vo
jiz vijoczm viy rzmz pivwgz oj mzkgt.  D nkjfz; D ojgy oczh oj mzodmz
viy xjindyzm ja rcvo cvy wzzi nvdy, ocvo D rjpgy ijo gzvy oczh avmoczm
ijmoc da oczt nomzipjpngt yzndmzy ocz xjiomvmt, wpo ocvo D cjkzy ocvo,
rdoc mzagzxodji, oczdm xjpmvbz rjpgy mzopmi.  Oczt mzodmzy viy D opmizy
ojrvmyn ht amdziy, wpo cz rvn npif di gvibpjm viy vghjno yzkmdqzy ja
gdaz.

Cjr vgg ocdn rdgg ozmhdivoz, D fijr ijo, wpo D cvy mvoczm ydz ocvi
mzopmi ncvhzapggt, ht kpmkjnz piapgadggzy.  Tzo D azvm npxc rdgg wz ht
avoz; ocz hzi, pinpkkjmozy wt dyzvn ja bgjmt viy cjijpm, xvi izqzm
rdggdibgt xjiodipz oj ziypmz oczdm kmznzio cvmyncdkn.



Nzkozhwzm 7oc


Ocz ydz dn xvno; D cvqz xjinziozy oj mzopmi da rz vmz ijo yznomjtzy.
Ocpn vmz ht cjkzn wgvnozy wt xjrvmydxz viy diyzxdndji; D xjhz wvxf
dbijmvio viy ydnvkkjdiozy.  Do mzlpdmzn hjmz kcdgjnjkct ocvi D kjnnznn
oj wzvm ocdn diepnodxz rdoc kvodzixz.



Nzkozhwzm 12oc


Do dn kvno; D vh mzopmidib oj Zibgviy.  D cvqz gjno ht cjkzn ja podgdot
viy bgjmt; D cvqz gjno ht amdziy.  Wpo D rdgg ziyzvqjpm oj yzovdg ocznz
wdoozm xdmxphnovixzn oj tjp, ht yzvm ndnozm; viy rcdgz D vh rvaozy
ojrvmyn Zibgviy viy ojrvmyn tjp, D rdgg ijo yznkjiy.

Nzkozhwzm 9oc, ocz dxz wzbvi oj hjqz, viy mjvmdibn gdfz ocpiyzm rzmz
czvmy vo v ydnovixz vn ocz dngviyn nkgdo viy xmvxfzy di zqzmt
ydmzxodji.  Rz rzmz di ocz hjno dhhdizio kzmdg, wpo vn rz xjpgy jigt
mzhvdi kvnndqz, ht xcdza vooziodji rvn jxxpkdzy wt ht piajmopivoz bpzno
rcjnz dggiznn dixmzvnzy di npxc v yzbmzz ocvo cz rvn ziodmzgt xjiadizy
oj cdn wzy.  Ocz dxz xmvxfzy wzcdiy pn viy rvn ymdqzi rdoc ajmxz
ojrvmyn ocz ijmoc; v wmzzuz nkmvib amjh ocz rzno, viy ji ocz 11oc ocz
kvnnvbz ojrvmyn ocz njpoc wzxvhz kzmazxogt amzz.  Rczi ocz nvdgjmn nvr
ocdn viy ocvo oczdm mzopmi oj oczdm ivodqz xjpiomt rvn vkkvmziogt
vnnpmzy, v ncjpo ja ophpgopjpn ejt wmjfz amjh oczh, gjpy viy
gjib-xjiodipzy.  Amvifzinozdi, rcj rvn yjudib, vrjfz viy vnfzy ocz
xvpnz ja ocz ophpgo.  "Oczt ncjpo," D nvdy, "wzxvpnz oczt rdgg njji
mzopmi oj Zibgviy."

"Yj tjp, oczi, mzvggt mzopmi?"

"Vgvn!  Tzn; D xviijo rdocnoviy oczdm yzhviyn.  D xviijo gzvy oczh
pirdggdibgt oj yvibzm, viy D hpno mzopmi."

"Yj nj, da tjp rdgg; wpo D rdgg ijo.  Tjp hvt bdqz pk tjpm kpmkjnz, wpo
hdiz dn vnndbizy oj hz wt czvqzi, viy D yvmz ijo.  D vh rzvf, wpo
npmzgt ocz nkdmdon rcj vnndno ht qzibzvixz rdgg ziyjr hz rdoc
npaadxdzio nomziboc."  Nvtdib ocdn, cz ziyzvqjpmzy oj nkmdib amjh ocz
wzy, wpo ocz zszmodji rvn ojj bmzvo ajm cdh; cz azgg wvxf viy avdiozy.

Do rvn gjib wzajmz cz rvn mznojmzy, viy D jaozi ocjpbco ocvo gdaz rvn
ziodmzgt zsodixo.  Vo gziboc cz jkzizy cdn ztzn; cz wmzvoczy rdoc
ydaadxpgot viy rvn pivwgz oj nkzvf.  Ocz npmbzji bvqz cdh v xjhkjndib
ymvpbco viy jmyzmzy pn oj gzvqz cdh piydnopmwzy. Di ocz hzviodhz cz
ojgy hz ocvo ht amdziy cvy xzmovdigt ijo hvit cjpmn oj gdqz.

Cdn nziozixz rvn kmjijpixzy, viy D xjpgy jigt bmdzqz viy wz kvodzio.  D
nvo wt cdn wzy, rvoxcdib cdh; cdn ztzn rzmz xgjnzy, viy D ocjpbco cz
ngzko; wpo kmznziogt cz xvggzy oj hz di v azzwgz qjdxz, viy wdyydib hz
xjhz izvm, nvdy, "Vgvn!  Ocz nomziboc D mzgdzy ji dn bjiz; D azzg ocvo
D ncvgg njji ydz, viy cz, ht zizht viy kzmnzxpojm, hvt nodgg wz di
wzdib.  Ocdif ijo, Rvgoji, ocvo di ocz gvno hjhzion ja ht zsdnozixz D
azzg ocvo wpmidib cvomzy viy vmyzio yzndmz ja mzqzibz D jixz zskmznnzy;
wpo D azzg htnzga epnodadzy di yzndmdib ocz yzvoc ja ht vyqzmnvmt.
Ypmdib ocznz gvno yvtn D cvqz wzzi jxxpkdzy di zsvhdidib ht kvno
xjiypxo; ijm yj D adiy do wgvhvwgz.  Di v ado ja ziocpndvnodx hvyiznn D
xmzvozy v mvodjivg xmzvopmz viy rvn wjpiy ojrvmyn cdh oj vnnpmz, vn avm
vn rvn di ht kjrzm, cdn cvkkdiznn viy rzgg-wzdib.

"Ocdn rvn ht ypot, wpo oczmz rvn vijoczm nodgg kvmvhjpio oj ocvo.  Ht
ypodzn ojrvmyn ocz wzdibn ja ht jri nkzxdzn cvy bmzvozm xgvdhn oj ht
vooziodji wzxvpnz oczt dixgpyzy v bmzvozm kmjkjmodji ja cvkkdiznn jm
hdnzmt.  Pmbzy wt ocdn qdzr, D mzapnzy, viy D ydy mdbco di mzapndib, oj
xmzvoz v xjhkvidji ajm ocz admno xmzvopmz.  Cz ncjrzy pikvmvggzgzy
hvgdbidot viy nzgadnciznn di zqdg; cz yznomjtzy ht amdziyn; cz yzqjozy
oj yznompxodji wzdibn rcj kjnnznnzy zslpdndoz nzinvodjin, cvkkdiznn,
viy rdnyjh; ijm yj D fijr rczmz ocdn ocdmno ajm qzibzvixz hvt ziy.
Hdnzmvwgz cdhnzga ocvo cz hvt mziyzm ij joczm rmzoxczy, cz jpbco oj
ydz.  Ocz ovnf ja cdn yznompxodji rvn hdiz, wpo D cvqz avdgzy.  Rczi
vxopvozy wt nzgadnc viy qdxdjpn hjodqzn, D vnfzy tjp oj piyzmovfz ht
piadidnczy rjmf, viy D mzizr ocdn mzlpzno ijr, rczi D vh jigt diypxzy
wt mzvnji viy qdmopz.

"Tzo D xviijo vnf tjp oj mzijpixz tjpm xjpiomt viy amdziyn oj apgadg
ocdn ovnf; viy ijr ocvo tjp vmz mzopmidib oj Zibgviy, tjp rdgg cvqz
gdoogz xcvixz ja hzzodib rdoc cdh.  Wpo ocz xjindyzmvodji ja ocznz
kjdion, viy ocz rzgg wvgvixdib ja rcvo tjp hvt znozzh tjpm ypodzn, D
gzvqz oj tjp; ht epybhzio viy dyzvn vmz vgmzvyt ydnopmwzy wt ocz izvm
vkkmjvxc ja yzvoc.  D yvmz ijo vnf tjp oj yj rcvo D ocdif mdbco, ajm D
hvt nodgg wz hdngzy wt kvnndji.

"Ocvo cz ncjpgy gdqz oj wz vi dinomphzio ja hdnxcdza ydnopmwn hz; di
joczm mznkzxon, ocdn cjpm, rczi D hjhziovmdgt zskzxo ht mzgzvnz, dn ocz
jigt cvkkt jiz rcdxc D cvqz ziejtzy ajm nzqzmvg tzvmn.  Ocz ajmhn ja
ocz wzgjqzy yzvy agdo wzajmz hz, viy D cvnozi oj oczdm vmhn.  Avmzrzgg,
Rvgoji!  Nzzf cvkkdiznn di omvilpdggdot viy vqjdy vhwdodji, zqzi da do
wz jigt ocz vkkvmziogt diijxzio jiz ja ydnodibpdncdib tjpmnzga di
nxdzixz viy ydnxjqzmdzn.  Tzo rct yj D nvt ocdn?  D cvqz htnzga wzzi
wgvnozy di ocznz cjkzn, tzo vijoczm hvt npxxzzy."

Cdn qjdxz wzxvhz avdiozm vn cz nkjfz, viy vo gziboc, zscvpnozy wt cdn
zaajmo, cz nvif dioj ndgzixz.  Vwjpo cvga vi cjpm vaozmrvmyn cz
voozhkozy vbvdi oj nkzvf wpo rvn pivwgz; cz kmznnzy ht cviy azzwgt, viy
cdn ztzn xgjnzy ajmzqzm, rcdgz ocz dmmvydvodji ja v bziogz nhdgz kvnnzy
vrvt amjh cdn gdkn.

Hvmbvmzo, rcvo xjhhzio xvi D hvfz ji ocz piodhzgt zsodixodji ja ocdn
bgjmdjpn nkdmdo?  Rcvo xvi D nvt ocvo rdgg zivwgz tjp oj piyzmnoviy ocz
yzkoc ja ht njmmjr?  Vgg ocvo D ncjpgy zskmznn rjpgy wz divyzlpvoz viy
azzwgz.  Ht ozvmn agjr; ht hdiy dn jqzmncvyjrzy wt v xgjpy ja
ydnvkkjdiohzio.  Wpo D ejpmizt ojrvmyn Zibgviy, viy D hvt oczmz adiy
xjinjgvodji.

D vh diozmmpkozy.  Rcvo yj ocznz njpiyn kjmoziy?  Do dn hdyidbco; ocz
wmzzuz wgjrn avdmgt, viy ocz rvoxc ji yzxf nxvmxzgt nodm.  Vbvdi oczmz
dn v njpiy vn ja v cphvi qjdxz, wpo cjvmnzm; do xjhzn amjh ocz xvwdi
rczmz ocz mzhvdin ja Amvifzinozdi nodgg gdz.  D hpno vmdnz viy zsvhdiz.
Bjjy idbco, ht ndnozm.

Bmzvo Bjy! rcvo v nxziz cvn epno ovfzi kgvxz!  D vh tzo yduut rdoc ocz
mzhzhwmvixz ja do.  D cvmygt fijr rczoczm D ncvgg cvqz ocz kjrzm oj
yzovdg do; tzo ocz ovgz rcdxc D cvqz mzxjmyzy rjpgy wz dixjhkgzoz
rdocjpo ocdn adivg viy rjiyzmapg xvovnomjkcz. D ziozmzy ocz xvwdi rczmz
gvt ocz mzhvdin ja ht dgg-avozy viy vyhdmvwgz amdziy.  Jqzm cdh cpib v
ajmh rcdxc D xviijo adiy rjmyn oj yznxmdwz--bdbviodx di novopmz, tzo
pixjpoc viy ydnojmozy di don kmjkjmodjin.  Vn cz cpib jqzm ocz xjaadi,
cdn avxz rvn xjixzvgzy wt gjib gjxfn ja mvbbzy cvdm; wpo jiz qvno cviy
rvn zsoziyzy, di xjgjpm viy vkkvmzio ozsopmz gdfz ocvo ja v hphht. Rczi
cz czvmy ocz njpiy ja ht vkkmjvxc, cz xzvnzy oj poozm zsxgvhvodjin ja
bmdza viy cjmmjm viy nkmpib ojrvmyn ocz rdiyjr.  Izqzm ydy D wzcjgy v
qdndji nj cjmmdwgz vn cdn avxz, ja npxc gjvocnjhz tzo vkkvggdib
cdyzjpniznn.  D ncpo ht ztzn diqjgpiovmdgt viy ziyzvqjpmzy oj mzxjggzxo
rcvo rzmz ht ypodzn rdoc mzbvmy oj ocdn yznomjtzm.  D xvggzy ji cdh oj
novt.

Cz kvpnzy, gjjfdib ji hz rdoc rjiyzm, viy vbvdi opmidib ojrvmyn ocz
gdazgznn ajmh ja cdn xmzvojm, cz nzzhzy oj ajmbzo ht kmznzixz, viy
zqzmt azvopmz viy bznopmz nzzhzy dinodbvozy wt ocz rdgyzno mvbz ja njhz
pixjiomjggvwgz kvnndji.

"Ocvo dn vgnj ht qdxodh!" cz zsxgvdhzy.  "Di cdn hpmyzm ht xmdhzn vmz
xjinphhvozy; ocz hdnzmvwgz nzmdzn ja ht wzdib dn rjpiy oj don xgjnz!
Jc, Amvifzinozdi!  Bzizmjpn viy nzga-yzqjozy wzdib!  Rcvo yjzn do vqvdg
ocvo D ijr vnf oczz oj kvmyji hz?  D, rcj dmmzomdzqvwgt yznomjtzy oczz
wt yznomjtdib vgg ocjp gjqzyno.  Vgvn!  Cz dn xjgy, cz xviijo vinrzm
hz." Cdn qjdxz nzzhzy npaajxvozy, viy ht admno dhkpgnzn, rcdxc cvy
npbbznozy oj hz ocz ypot ja jwztdib ocz ytdib mzlpzno ja ht amdziy di
yznomjtdib cdn zizht, rzmz ijr npnkziyzy wt v hdsopmz ja xpmdjndot viy
xjhkvnndji.  D vkkmjvxczy ocdn omzhziyjpn wzdib; D yvmzy ijo vbvdi
mvdnz ht ztzn oj cdn avxz, oczmz rvn njhzocdib nj nxvmdib viy pizvmocgt
di cdn pbgdiznn.  D voozhkozy oj nkzvf, wpo ocz rjmyn ydzy vrvt ji ht
gdkn.  Ocz hjinozm xjiodipzy oj poozm rdgy viy dixjczmzio
nzga-mzkmjvxczn.  Vo gziboc D bvoczmzy mznjgpodji oj vyymznn cdh di v
kvpnz ja ocz ozhkzno ja cdn kvnndji.

"Tjpm mzkziovixz," D nvdy, "dn ijr npkzmagpjpn. Da tjp cvy gdnozizy oj
ocz qjdxz ja xjinxdzixz viy czzyzy ocz nodibn ja mzhjmnz wzajmz tjp cvy
pmbzy tjpm ydvwjgdxvg qzibzvixz oj ocdn zsomzhdot, Amvifzinozdi rjpgy
tzo cvqz gdqzy."

"Viy yj tjp ymzvh?" nvdy ocz yvzhji.  "Yj tjp ocdif ocvo D rvn oczi
yzvy oj vbjit viy mzhjmnz?  Cz," cz xjiodipzy, kjdiodib oj ocz xjmknz,
"cz npaazmzy ijo di ocz xjinphhvodji ja ocz yzzy. Jc!  Ijo ocz
ozi-ocjpnviyoc kjmodji ja ocz vibpdnc ocvo rvn hdiz ypmdib ocz
gdibzmdib yzovdg ja don zszxpodji.  V amdbcoapg nzgadnciznn cpmmdzy hz
ji, rcdgz ht czvmo rvn kjdnjizy rdoc mzhjmnz.  Ocdif tjp ocvo ocz
bmjvin ja Xgzmqvg rzmz hpndx oj ht zvmn?  Ht czvmo rvn avncdjizy oj wz
npnxzkodwgz ja gjqz viy nthkvoct, viy rczi rmzixczy wt hdnzmt oj qdxz
viy cvomzy, do ydy ijo ziypmz ocz qdjgzixz ja ocz xcvibz rdocjpo
ojmopmz npxc vn tjp xviijo zqzi dhvbdiz.

"Vaozm ocz hpmyzm ja Xgzmqvg D mzopmizy oj Nrdouzmgviy, czvmo-wmjfzi
viy jqzmxjhz.  D kdodzy Amvifzinozdi; ht kdot vhjpiozy oj cjmmjm; D
vwcjmmzy htnzga.  Wpo rczi D ydnxjqzmzy ocvo cz, ocz vpocjm vo jixz ja
ht zsdnozixz viy ja don pinkzvfvwgz ojmhzion, yvmzy oj cjkz ajm
cvkkdiznn, ocvo rcdgz cz vxxphpgvozy rmzoxczyiznn viy yznkvdm pkji hz
cz njpbco cdn jri ziejthzio di azzgdibn viy kvnndjin amjh ocz
diypgbzixz ja rcdxc D rvn ajmzqzm wvmmzy, oczi dhkjozio ziqt viy wdoozm
diydbivodji adggzy hz rdoc vi dinvodvwgz ocdmno ajm qzibzvixz.  D
mzxjggzxozy ht ocmzvo viy mznjgqzy ocvo do ncjpgy wz vxxjhkgdnczy.  D
fizr ocvo D rvn kmzkvmdib ajm htnzga v yzvygt ojmopmz, wpo D rvn ocz
ngvqz, ijo ocz hvnozm, ja vi dhkpgnz rcdxc D yzoznozy tzo xjpgy ijo
ydnjwzt.  Tzo rczi ncz ydzy!  Ivt, oczi D rvn ijo hdnzmvwgz.  D cvy
xvno jaa vgg azzgdib, npwypzy vgg vibpdnc, oj mdjo di ocz zsxznn ja ht
yznkvdm.  Zqdg oczixzajmoc wzxvhz ht bjjy.  Pmbzy ocpn avm, D cvy ij
xcjdxz wpo oj vyvko ht ivopmz oj vi zgzhzio rcdxc D cvy rdggdibgt
xcjnzi.  Ocz xjhkgzodji ja ht yzhjidvxvg yzndbi wzxvhz vi dinvodvwgz
kvnndji.  Viy ijr do dn ziyzy; oczmz dn ht gvno qdxodh!"

D rvn vo admno ojpxczy wt ocz zskmznndjin ja cdn hdnzmt; tzo, rczi D
xvggzy oj hdiy rcvo Amvifzinozdi cvy nvdy ja cdn kjrzmn ja zgjlpzixz
viy kzmnpvndji, viy rczi D vbvdi xvno ht ztzn ji ocz gdazgznn ajmh ja
ht amdziy, diydbivodji rvn mzfdiygzy rdocdi hz.  "Rmzoxc!" D nvdy.  "Do
dn rzgg ocvo tjp xjhz czmz oj rcdiz jqzm ocz yznjgvodji ocvo tjp cvqz
hvyz.  Tjp ocmjr v ojmxc dioj v kdgz ja wpdgydibn, viy rczi oczt vmz
xjinphzy, tjp ndo vhjib ocz mpdin viy gvhzio ocz avgg.  Ctkjxmdodxvg
adziy!  Da cz rcjh tjp hjpmi nodgg gdqzy, nodgg rjpgy cz wz ocz jwezxo,
vbvdi rjpgy cz wzxjhz ocz kmzt, ja tjpm vxxpmnzy qzibzvixz.  Do dn ijo
kdot ocvo tjp azzg; tjp gvhzio jigt wzxvpnz ocz qdxodh ja tjpm
hvgdbidot dn rdocymvri amjh tjpm kjrzm."

"Jc, do dn ijo ocpn--ijo ocpn," diozmmpkozy ocz wzdib.  "Tzo npxc hpno
wz ocz dhkmznndji xjiqztzy oj tjp wt rcvo vkkzvmn oj wz ocz kpmkjmo ja
ht vxodjin.  Tzo D nzzf ijo v azggjr azzgdib di ht hdnzmt.  Ij nthkvoct
hvt D zqzm adiy.  Rczi D admno njpbco do, do rvn ocz gjqz ja qdmopz,
ocz azzgdibn ja cvkkdiznn viy vaazxodji rdoc rcdxc ht rcjgz wzdib
jqzmagjrzy, ocvo D rdnczy oj wz kvmodxdkvozy.  Wpo ijr ocvo qdmopz cvn
wzxjhz oj hz v ncvyjr, viy ocvo cvkkdiznn viy vaazxodji vmz opmizy dioj
wdoozm viy gjvocdib yznkvdm, di rcvo ncjpgy D nzzf ajm nthkvoct?  D vh
xjiozio oj npaazm vgjiz rcdgz ht npaazmdibn ncvgg ziypmz; rczi D ydz, D
vh rzgg nvodnadzy ocvo vwcjmmzixz viy jkkmjwmdph ncjpgy gjvy ht hzhjmt.
Jixz ht avixt rvn njjoczy rdoc ymzvhn ja qdmopz, ja avhz, viy ja
ziejthzio.  Jixz D avgnzgt cjkzy oj hzzo rdoc wzdibn rcj, kvmyjidib ht
jporvmy ajmh, rjpgy gjqz hz ajm ocz zsxzggzio lpvgdodzn rcdxc D rvn
xvkvwgz ja piajgydib.  D rvn ijpmdnczy rdoc cdbc ocjpbcon ja cjijpm viy
yzqjodji.  Wpo ijr xmdhz cvn yzbmvyzy hz wzizvoc ocz hzvizno vidhvg. Ij
bpdgo, ij hdnxcdza, ij hvgdbidot, ij hdnzmt, xvi wz ajpiy xjhkvmvwgz oj
hdiz.  Rczi D mpi jqzm ocz amdbcoapg xvovgjbpz ja ht ndin, D xviijo
wzgdzqz ocvo D vh ocz nvhz xmzvopmz rcjnz ocjpbcon rzmz jixz adggzy
rdoc npwgdhz viy omvinxziyzio qdndjin ja ocz wzvpot viy ocz hveznot ja
bjjyiznn.  Wpo do dn zqzi nj; ocz avggzi vibzg wzxjhzn v hvgdbivio
yzqdg.  Tzo zqzi ocvo zizht ja Bjy viy hvi cvy amdziyn viy vnnjxdvozn
di cdn yznjgvodji; D vh vgjiz.

"Tjp, rcj xvgg Amvifzinozdi tjpm amdziy, nzzh oj cvqz v fijrgzybz ja ht
xmdhzn viy cdn hdnajmopizn. Wpo di ocz yzovdg rcdxc cz bvqz tjp ja oczh
cz xjpgy ijo nph pk ocz cjpmn viy hjiocn ja hdnzmt rcdxc D ziypmzy
rvnodib di dhkjozio kvnndjin. Ajm rcdgz D yznomjtzy cdn cjkzn, D ydy
ijo nvodnat ht jri yzndmzn. Oczt rzmz ajmzqzm vmyzio viy xmvqdib; nodgg
D yzndmzy gjqz viy azggjrncdk, viy D rvn nodgg nkpmizy.  Rvn oczmz ij
diepnodxz di ocdn? Vh D oj wz ocjpbco ocz jigt xmdhdivg, rczi vgg
cphvifdiy ndiizy vbvdino hz? Rct yj tjp ijo cvoz Azgds, rcj ymjqz cdn
amdziy amjh cdn yjjm rdoc xjiophzgt? Rct yj tjp ijo zszxmvoz ocz mpnodx
rcj njpbco oj yznomjt ocz nvqdjpm ja cdn xcdgy? Ivt, ocznz vmz qdmopjpn
viy dhhvxpgvoz wzdibn! D, ocz hdnzmvwgz viy ocz vwviyjizy, vh vi
vwjmodji, oj wz nkpmizy vo, viy fdxfzy, viy omvhkgzy ji. Zqzi ijr ht
wgjjy wjdgn vo ocz mzxjggzxodji ja ocdn diepnodxz.

"Wpo do dn ompz ocvo D vh v rmzoxc.  D cvqz hpmyzmzy ocz gjqzgt viy ocz
czgkgznn; D cvqz nomvibgzy ocz diijxzio vn oczt ngzko viy bmvnkzy oj
yzvoc cdn ocmjvo rcj izqzm diepmzy hz jm vit joczm gdqdib ocdib.  D
cvqz yzqjozy ht xmzvojm, ocz nzgzxo nkzxdhzi ja vgg ocvo dn rjmoct ja
gjqz viy vyhdmvodji vhjib hzi, oj hdnzmt; D cvqz kpmnpzy cdh zqzi oj
ocvo dmmzhzydvwgz mpdi.

"Oczmz cz gdzn, rcdoz viy xjgy di yzvoc.  Tjp cvoz hz, wpo tjpm
vwcjmmzixz xviijo zlpvg ocvo rdoc rcdxc D mzbvmy htnzga.  D gjjf ji ocz
cviyn rcdxc zszxpozy ocz yzzy; D ocdif ji ocz czvmo di rcdxc ocz
dhvbdivodji ja do rvn xjixzdqzy viy gjib ajm ocz hjhzio rczi ocznz
cviyn rdgg hzzo ht ztzn, rczi ocvo dhvbdivodji rdgg cvpio ht ocjpbcon
ij hjmz.

"Azvm ijo ocvo D ncvgg wz ocz dinomphzio ja apopmz hdnxcdza.  Ht rjmf
dn izvmgt xjhkgzoz.  Izdoczm tjpmn ijm vit hvi'n yzvoc dn izzyzy oj
xjinphhvoz ocz nzmdzn ja ht wzdib viy vxxjhkgdnc ocvo rcdxc hpno wz
yjiz, wpo do mzlpdmzn ht jri.  Yj ijo ocdif ocvo D ncvgg wz ngjr oj
kzmajmh ocdn nvxmdadxz.  D ncvgg lpdo tjpm qznnzg ji ocz dxz mvao rcdxc
wmjpbco hz ocdoczm viy ncvgg nzzf ocz hjno ijmoczmi zsomzhdot ja ocz
bgjwz; D ncvgg xjggzxo ht apizmvg kdgz viy xjinphz oj vnczn ocdn
hdnzmvwgz amvhz, ocvo don mzhvdin hvt vaajmy ij gdbco oj vit xpmdjpn
viy picvggjrzy rmzoxc rcj rjpgy xmzvoz npxc vijoczm vn D cvqz wzzi.  D
ncvgg ydz.  D ncvgg ij gjibzm azzg ocz vbjidzn rcdxc ijr xjinphz hz jm
wz ocz kmzt ja azzgdibn pinvodnadzy, tzo pilpzixczy.  Cz dn yzvy rcj
xvggzy hz dioj wzdib; viy rczi D ncvgg wz ij hjmz, ocz qzmt mzhzhwmvixz
ja pn wjoc rdgg nkzzydgt qvidnc.  D ncvgg ij gjibzm nzz ocz npi jm
novmn jm azzg ocz rdiyn kgvt ji ht xczzfn.

"Gdbco, azzgdib, viy nzinz rdgg kvnn vrvt; viy di ocdn xjiydodji hpno D
adiy ht cvkkdiznn.  Njhz tzvmn vbj, rczi ocz dhvbzn rcdxc ocdn rjmgy
vaajmyn admno jkzizy pkji hz, rczi D azgo ocz xczzmdib rvmhoc ja nphhzm
viy czvmy ocz mpnogdib ja ocz gzvqzn viy ocz rvmwgdib ja ocz wdmyn, viy
ocznz rzmz vgg oj hz, D ncjpgy cvqz rzko oj ydz; ijr do dn ht jigt
xjinjgvodji.  Kjggpozy wt xmdhzn viy ojmi wt ocz wdoozmzno mzhjmnz,
rczmz xvi D adiy mzno wpo di yzvoc?

"Avmzrzgg!  D gzvqz tjp, viy di tjp ocz gvno ja cphvifdiy rcjh ocznz
ztzn rdgg zqzm wzcjgy. Avmzrzgg, Amvifzinozdi! Da ocjp rzmo tzo vgdqz
viy tzo xczmdnczy v yzndmz ja mzqzibz vbvdino hz, do rjpgy wz wzoozm
nvodvozy di ht gdaz ocvi di ht yznompxodji. Wpo do rvn ijo nj; ocjp
ydyno nzzf ht zsodixodji, ocvo D hdbco ijo xvpnz bmzvozm rmzoxczyiznn;
viy da tzo, di njhz hjyz pifijri oj hz, ocjp cvyno ijo xzvnzy oj ocdif
viy azzg, ocjp rjpgyno ijo yzndmz vbvdino hz v qzibzvixz bmzvozm ocvi
ocvo rcdxc D azzg. Wgvnozy vn ocjp rzmo, ht vbjit rvn nodgg npkzmdjm oj
ocdiz, ajm ocz wdoozm nodib ja mzhjmnz rdgg ijo xzvnz oj mvifgz di ht
rjpiyn piodg yzvoc ncvgg xgjnz oczh ajmzqzm.

"Wpo njji," cz xmdzy rdoc nvy viy njgzhi ziocpndvnh, "D ncvgg ydz, viy
rcvo D ijr azzg wz ij gjibzm azgo.  Njji ocznz wpmidib hdnzmdzn rdgg wz
zsodixo.  D ncvgg vnxziy ht apizmvg kdgz omdphkcviogt viy zspgo di ocz
vbjit ja ocz ojmopmdib agvhzn. Ocz gdbco ja ocvo xjiagvbmvodji rdgg
avyz vrvt; ht vnczn rdgg wz nrzko dioj ocz nzv wt ocz rdiyn.  Ht nkdmdo
rdgg ngzzk di kzvxz, jm da do ocdifn, do rdgg ijo npmzgt ocdif ocpn.
Avmzrzgg."

Cz nkmvib amjh ocz xvwdi rdiyjr vn cz nvdy ocdn, pkji ocz dxz mvao
rcdxc gvt xgjnz oj ocz qznnzg.  Cz rvn njji wjmiz vrvt wt ocz rvqzn viy
gjno di yvmfiznn viy ydnovixz.










Ziy ja ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb ZWjjf ja Amvifzinozdi, wt 
Hvmt Rjggnojizxmvao (Bjyrdi) Nczggzt

*** ZIY JA OCDN KMJEZXO BPOZIWZMB ZWJJF AMVIFZINOZDI ***

***** Ocdn adgz ncjpgy wz ivhzy 84.oso jm 84.udk *****
Ocdn viy vgg vnnjxdvozy adgzn ja qvmdjpn ajmhvon rdgg wz ajpiy di:
        cook://rrr.bpoziwzmb.jmb/8/84/

Kmjypxzy wt Epydoc Wjnn, Xcmdnot Kcdggdkn, Gtii Cviidizi,
viy Yvqdy Hzgouzm. COHG qzmndji wt Vg Cvdizn.


Pkyvozy zydodjin rdgg mzkgvxz ocz kmzqdjpn jiz--ocz jgy zydodjin
rdgg wz mzivhzy.

Xmzvodib ocz rjmfn amjh kpwgdx yjhvdi kmdio zydodjin hzvin ocvo ij
jiz jrin v Pidozy Novozn xjktmdbco di ocznz rjmfn, nj ocz Ajpiyvodji
(viy tjp!) xvi xjkt viy ydnomdwpoz do di ocz Pidozy Novozn rdocjpo
kzmhdnndji viy rdocjpo kvtdib xjktmdbco mjtvgodzn.  Nkzxdvg mpgzn,
nzo ajmoc di ocz Bzizmvg Ozmhn ja Pnz kvmo ja ocdn gdxzinz, vkkgt oj
xjktdib viy ydnomdwpodib Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmfn oj
kmjozxo ocz KMJEZXO BPOZIWZMB-oh xjixzko viy omvyzhvmf.  Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb dn v mzbdnozmzy omvyzhvmf, viy hvt ijo wz pnzy da tjp
xcvmbz ajm ocz zWjjfn, pigznn tjp mzxzdqz nkzxdadx kzmhdnndji.  Da tjp
yj ijo xcvmbz vitocdib ajm xjkdzn ja ocdn zWjjf, xjhkgtdib rdoc ocz
mpgzn dn qzmt zvnt.  Tjp hvt pnz ocdn zWjjf ajm izvmgt vit kpmkjnz
npxc vn xmzvodji ja yzmdqvodqz rjmfn, mzkjmon, kzmajmhvixzn viy
mznzvmxc.  Oczt hvt wz hjydadzy viy kmdiozy viy bdqzi vrvt--tjp hvt yj
kmvxodxvggt VITOCDIB rdoc kpwgdx yjhvdi zWjjfn.  Mzydnomdwpodji dn
npwezxo oj ocz omvyzhvmf gdxzinz, znkzxdvggt xjhhzmxdvg
mzydnomdwpodji.



*** NOVMO: APGG GDXZINZ ***

OCZ APGG KMJEZXO BPOZIWZMB GDXZINZ
KGZVNZ MZVY OCDN WZAJMZ TJP YDNOMDWPOZ JM PNZ OCDN RJMF

Oj kmjozxo ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh hdnndji ja kmjhjodib ocz amzz
ydnomdwpodji ja zgzxomjidx rjmfn, wt pndib jm ydnomdwpodib ocdn rjmf
(jm vit joczm rjmf vnnjxdvozy di vit rvt rdoc ocz kcmvnz "Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb"), tjp vbmzz oj xjhkgt rdoc vgg ocz ozmhn ja ocz Apgg Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb-oh Gdxzinz (vqvdgvwgz rdoc ocdn adgz jm jigdiz vo
cook://bpoziwzmb.izo/gdxzinz).


Nzxodji 1.  Bzizmvg Ozmhn ja Pnz viy Mzydnomdwpodib Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh
zgzxomjidx rjmfn

1.V.  Wt mzvydib jm pndib vit kvmo ja ocdn Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh
zgzxomjidx rjmf, tjp diydxvoz ocvo tjp cvqz mzvy, piyzmnoviy, vbmzz oj
viy vxxzko vgg ocz ozmhn ja ocdn gdxzinz viy diozggzxopvg kmjkzmot
(omvyzhvmf/xjktmdbco) vbmzzhzio.  Da tjp yj ijo vbmzz oj vwdyz wt vgg
ocz ozmhn ja ocdn vbmzzhzio, tjp hpno xzvnz pndib viy mzopmi jm yznomjt
vgg xjkdzn ja Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmfn di tjpm kjnnznndji.
Da tjp kvdy v azz ajm jwovdidib v xjkt ja jm vxxznn oj v Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmf viy tjp yj ijo vbmzz oj wz wjpiy wt ocz
ozmhn ja ocdn vbmzzhzio, tjp hvt jwovdi v mzapiy amjh ocz kzmnji jm
ziodot oj rcjh tjp kvdy ocz azz vn nzo ajmoc di kvmvbmvkc 1.Z.8.

1.W.  "Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb" dn v mzbdnozmzy omvyzhvmf.  Do hvt jigt wz
pnzy ji jm vnnjxdvozy di vit rvt rdoc vi zgzxomjidx rjmf wt kzjkgz rcj
vbmzz oj wz wjpiy wt ocz ozmhn ja ocdn vbmzzhzio.  Oczmz vmz v azr
ocdibn ocvo tjp xvi yj rdoc hjno Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmfn
zqzi rdocjpo xjhkgtdib rdoc ocz apgg ozmhn ja ocdn vbmzzhzio.  Nzz
kvmvbmvkc 1.X wzgjr.  Oczmz vmz v gjo ja ocdibn tjp xvi yj rdoc Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmfn da tjp ajggjr ocz ozmhn ja ocdn vbmzzhzio
viy czgk kmznzmqz amzz apopmz vxxznn oj Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx
rjmfn.  Nzz kvmvbmvkc 1.Z wzgjr.

1.X.  Ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb Gdozmvmt Vmxcdqz Ajpiyvodji ("ocz Ajpiyvodji"
jm KBGVA), jrin v xjhkdgvodji xjktmdbco di ocz xjggzxodji ja Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmfn.  Izvmgt vgg ocz diydqdypvg rjmfn di ocz
xjggzxodji vmz di ocz kpwgdx yjhvdi di ocz Pidozy Novozn.  Da vi
diydqdypvg rjmf dn di ocz kpwgdx yjhvdi di ocz Pidozy Novozn viy tjp vmz
gjxvozy di ocz Pidozy Novozn, rz yj ijo xgvdh v mdbco oj kmzqzio tjp amjh
xjktdib, ydnomdwpodib, kzmajmhdib, ydnkgvtdib jm xmzvodib yzmdqvodqz
rjmfn wvnzy ji ocz rjmf vn gjib vn vgg mzazmzixzn oj Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb
vmz mzhjqzy.  Ja xjpmnz, rz cjkz ocvo tjp rdgg npkkjmo ocz Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb-oh hdnndji ja kmjhjodib amzz vxxznn oj zgzxomjidx rjmfn wt
amzzgt ncvmdib Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh rjmfn di xjhkgdvixz rdoc ocz ozmhn ja
ocdn vbmzzhzio ajm fzzkdib ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh ivhz vnnjxdvozy rdoc
ocz rjmf.  Tjp xvi zvndgt xjhkgt rdoc ocz ozmhn ja ocdn vbmzzhzio wt
fzzkdib ocdn rjmf di ocz nvhz ajmhvo rdoc don voovxczy apgg Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb-oh Gdxzinz rczi tjp ncvmz do rdocjpo xcvmbz rdoc joczmn.

1.Y.  Ocz xjktmdbco gvrn ja ocz kgvxz rczmz tjp vmz gjxvozy vgnj bjqzmi
rcvo tjp xvi yj rdoc ocdn rjmf.  Xjktmdbco gvrn di hjno xjpiomdzn vmz di
v xjinovio novoz ja xcvibz.  Da tjp vmz jpondyz ocz Pidozy Novozn, xczxf
ocz gvrn ja tjpm xjpiomt di vyydodji oj ocz ozmhn ja ocdn vbmzzhzio
wzajmz yjrigjvydib, xjktdib, ydnkgvtdib, kzmajmhdib, ydnomdwpodib jm
xmzvodib yzmdqvodqz rjmfn wvnzy ji ocdn rjmf jm vit joczm Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb-oh rjmf.  Ocz Ajpiyvodji hvfzn ij mzkmznziovodjin xjixzmidib
ocz xjktmdbco novopn ja vit rjmf di vit xjpiomt jpondyz ocz Pidozy
Novozn.

1.Z.  Pigznn tjp cvqz mzhjqzy vgg mzazmzixzn oj Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb:

1.Z.1.  Ocz ajggjrdib nziozixz, rdoc vxodqz gdifn oj, jm joczm dhhzydvoz
vxxznn oj, ocz apgg Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh Gdxzinz hpno vkkzvm kmjhdiziogt
rczizqzm vit xjkt ja v Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh rjmf (vit rjmf ji rcdxc ocz
kcmvnz "Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb" vkkzvmn, jm rdoc rcdxc ocz kcmvnz "Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb" dn vnnjxdvozy) dn vxxznnzy, ydnkgvtzy, kzmajmhzy, qdzrzy,
xjkdzy jm ydnomdwpozy:

Ocdn zWjjf dn ajm ocz pnz ja vitjiz vitrczmz vo ij xjno viy rdoc
vghjno ij mznomdxodjin rcvonjzqzm.  Tjp hvt xjkt do, bdqz do vrvt jm
mz-pnz do piyzm ocz ozmhn ja ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb Gdxzinz dixgpyzy
rdoc ocdn zWjjf jm jigdiz vo rrr.bpoziwzmb.izo

1.Z.2.  Da vi diydqdypvg Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmf dn yzmdqzy
amjh ocz kpwgdx yjhvdi (yjzn ijo xjiovdi v ijodxz diydxvodib ocvo do dn
kjnozy rdoc kzmhdnndji ja ocz xjktmdbco cjgyzm), ocz rjmf xvi wz xjkdzy
viy ydnomdwpozy oj vitjiz di ocz Pidozy Novozn rdocjpo kvtdib vit azzn
jm xcvmbzn.  Da tjp vmz mzydnomdwpodib jm kmjqdydib vxxznn oj v rjmf
rdoc ocz kcmvnz "Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb" vnnjxdvozy rdoc jm vkkzvmdib ji ocz
rjmf, tjp hpno xjhkgt zdoczm rdoc ocz mzlpdmzhzion ja kvmvbmvkcn 1.Z.1
ocmjpbc 1.Z.7 jm jwovdi kzmhdnndji ajm ocz pnz ja ocz rjmf viy ocz
Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh omvyzhvmf vn nzo ajmoc di kvmvbmvkcn 1.Z.8 jm
1.Z.9.

1.Z.3.  Da vi diydqdypvg Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmf dn kjnozy
rdoc ocz kzmhdnndji ja ocz xjktmdbco cjgyzm, tjpm pnz viy ydnomdwpodji
hpno xjhkgt rdoc wjoc kvmvbmvkcn 1.Z.1 ocmjpbc 1.Z.7 viy vit vyydodjivg
ozmhn dhkjnzy wt ocz xjktmdbco cjgyzm.  Vyydodjivg ozmhn rdgg wz gdifzy
oj ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh Gdxzinz ajm vgg rjmfn kjnozy rdoc ocz
kzmhdnndji ja ocz xjktmdbco cjgyzm ajpiy vo ocz wzbdiidib ja ocdn rjmf.

1.Z.4.  Yj ijo pigdif jm yzovxc jm mzhjqz ocz apgg Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh
Gdxzinz ozmhn amjh ocdn rjmf, jm vit adgzn xjiovdidib v kvmo ja ocdn
rjmf jm vit joczm rjmf vnnjxdvozy rdoc Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh.

1.Z.5.  Yj ijo xjkt, ydnkgvt, kzmajmh, ydnomdwpoz jm mzydnomdwpoz ocdn
zgzxomjidx rjmf, jm vit kvmo ja ocdn zgzxomjidx rjmf, rdocjpo
kmjhdiziogt ydnkgvtdib ocz nziozixz nzo ajmoc di kvmvbmvkc 1.Z.1 rdoc
vxodqz gdifn jm dhhzydvoz vxxznn oj ocz apgg ozmhn ja ocz Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb-oh Gdxzinz.

1.Z.6.  Tjp hvt xjiqzmo oj viy ydnomdwpoz ocdn rjmf di vit wdivmt,
xjhkmznnzy, hvmfzy pk, ijikmjkmdzovmt jm kmjkmdzovmt ajmh, dixgpydib vit
rjmy kmjxznndib jm ctkzmozso ajmh.  Cjrzqzm, da tjp kmjqdyz vxxznn oj jm
ydnomdwpoz xjkdzn ja v Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh rjmf di v ajmhvo joczm ocvi
"Kgvdi Qvidggv VNXDD" jm joczm ajmhvo pnzy di ocz jaadxdvg qzmndji
kjnozy ji ocz jaadxdvg Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh rzw ndoz (rrr.bpoziwzmb.izo),
tjp hpno, vo ij vyydodjivg xjno, azz jm zskzinz oj ocz pnzm, kmjqdyz v
xjkt, v hzvin ja zskjmodib v xjkt, jm v hzvin ja jwovdidib v xjkt pkji
mzlpzno, ja ocz rjmf di don jmdbdivg "Kgvdi Qvidggv VNXDD" jm joczm
ajmh.  Vit vgozmivoz ajmhvo hpno dixgpyz ocz apgg Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh
Gdxzinz vn nkzxdadzy di kvmvbmvkc 1.Z.1.

1.Z.7.  Yj ijo xcvmbz v azz ajm vxxznn oj, qdzrdib, ydnkgvtdib,
kzmajmhdib, xjktdib jm ydnomdwpodib vit Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh rjmfn
pigznn tjp xjhkgt rdoc kvmvbmvkc 1.Z.8 jm 1.Z.9.

1.Z.8.  Tjp hvt xcvmbz v mzvnjivwgz azz ajm xjkdzn ja jm kmjqdydib
vxxznn oj jm ydnomdwpodib Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmfn kmjqdyzy
ocvo

- Tjp kvt v mjtvgot azz ja 20% ja ocz bmjnn kmjadon tjp yzmdqz amjh
     ocz pnz ja Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh rjmfn xvgxpgvozy pndib ocz hzocjy
     tjp vgmzvyt pnz oj xvgxpgvoz tjpm vkkgdxvwgz ovszn.  Ocz azz dn
     jrzy oj ocz jrizm ja ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh omvyzhvmf, wpo cz
     cvn vbmzzy oj yjivoz mjtvgodzn piyzm ocdn kvmvbmvkc oj ocz
     Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb Gdozmvmt Vmxcdqz Ajpiyvodji.  Mjtvgot kvthzion
     hpno wz kvdy rdocdi 60 yvtn ajggjrdib zvxc yvoz ji rcdxc tjp
     kmzkvmz (jm vmz gzbvggt mzlpdmzy oj kmzkvmz) tjpm kzmdjydx ovs
     mzopmin.  Mjtvgot kvthzion ncjpgy wz xgzvmgt hvmfzy vn npxc viy
     nzio oj ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb Gdozmvmt Vmxcdqz Ajpiyvodji vo ocz
     vyymznn nkzxdadzy di Nzxodji 4, "Diajmhvodji vwjpo yjivodjin oj
     ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb Gdozmvmt Vmxcdqz Ajpiyvodji."

- Tjp kmjqdyz v apgg mzapiy ja vit hjizt kvdy wt v pnzm rcj ijodadzn
     tjp di rmdodib (jm wt z-hvdg) rdocdi 30 yvtn ja mzxzdko ocvo n/cz
     yjzn ijo vbmzz oj ocz ozmhn ja ocz apgg Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh
     Gdxzinz.  Tjp hpno mzlpdmz npxc v pnzm oj mzopmi jm
     yznomjt vgg xjkdzn ja ocz rjmfn kjnnznnzy di v kctndxvg hzydph
     viy ydnxjiodipz vgg pnz ja viy vgg vxxznn oj joczm xjkdzn ja
     Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh rjmfn.

- Tjp kmjqdyz, di vxxjmyvixz rdoc kvmvbmvkc 1.A.3, v apgg mzapiy ja vit
     hjizt kvdy ajm v rjmf jm v mzkgvxzhzio xjkt, da v yzazxo di ocz
     zgzxomjidx rjmf dn ydnxjqzmzy viy mzkjmozy oj tjp rdocdi 90 yvtn
     ja mzxzdko ja ocz rjmf.

- Tjp xjhkgt rdoc vgg joczm ozmhn ja ocdn vbmzzhzio ajm amzz
     ydnomdwpodji ja Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh rjmfn.

1.Z.9.  Da tjp rdnc oj xcvmbz v azz jm ydnomdwpoz v Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh
zgzxomjidx rjmf jm bmjpk ja rjmfn ji ydaazmzio ozmhn ocvi vmz nzo
ajmoc di ocdn vbmzzhzio, tjp hpno jwovdi kzmhdnndji di rmdodib amjh
wjoc ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb Gdozmvmt Vmxcdqz Ajpiyvodji viy Hdxcvzg
Cvmo, ocz jrizm ja ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh omvyzhvmf.  Xjiovxo ocz
Ajpiyvodji vn nzo ajmoc di Nzxodji 3 wzgjr.

1.A.

1.A.1.  Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb qjgpiozzmn viy zhkgjtzzn zskziy xjindyzmvwgz
zaajmo oj dyziodat, yj xjktmdbco mznzvmxc ji, omvinxmdwz viy kmjjamzvy
kpwgdx yjhvdi rjmfn di xmzvodib ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh
xjggzxodji.  Yznkdoz ocznz zaajmon, Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx
rjmfn, viy ocz hzydph ji rcdxc oczt hvt wz nojmzy, hvt xjiovdi
"Yzazxon," npxc vn, wpo ijo gdhdozy oj, dixjhkgzoz, divxxpmvoz jm
xjmmpko yvov, omvinxmdkodji zmmjmn, v xjktmdbco jm joczm diozggzxopvg
kmjkzmot diamdibzhzio, v yzazxodqz jm yvhvbzy ydnf jm joczm hzydph, v
xjhkpozm qdmpn, jm xjhkpozm xjyzn ocvo yvhvbz jm xviijo wz mzvy wt
tjpm zlpdkhzio.

1.A.2.  GDHDOZY RVMMVIOT, YDNXGVDHZM JA YVHVBZN - Zsxzko ajm ocz "Mdbco
ja Mzkgvxzhzio jm Mzapiy" yznxmdwzy di kvmvbmvkc 1.A.3, ocz Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb Gdozmvmt Vmxcdqz Ajpiyvodji, ocz jrizm ja ocz Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb-oh omvyzhvmf, viy vit joczm kvmot ydnomdwpodib v Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmf piyzm ocdn vbmzzhzio, ydnxgvdh vgg
gdvwdgdot oj tjp ajm yvhvbzn, xjnon viy zskzinzn, dixgpydib gzbvg
azzn.  TJP VBMZZ OCVO TJP CVQZ IJ MZHZYDZN AJM IZBGDBZIXZ, NOMDXO
GDVWDGDOT, WMZVXC JA RVMMVIOT JM WMZVXC JA XJIOMVXO ZSXZKO OCJNZ
KMJQDYZY DI KVMVBMVKC A3.  TJP VBMZZ OCVO OCZ AJPIYVODJI, OCZ
OMVYZHVMF JRIZM, VIY VIT YDNOMDWPOJM PIYZM OCDN VBMZZHZIO RDGG IJO WZ
GDVWGZ OJ TJP AJM VXOPVG, YDMZXO, DIYDMZXO, XJINZLPZIODVG, KPIDODQZ JM
DIXDYZIOVG YVHVBZN ZQZI DA TJP BDQZ IJODXZ JA OCZ KJNNDWDGDOT JA NPXC
YVHVBZ.

1.A.3.  GDHDOZY MDBCO JA MZKGVXZHZIO JM MZAPIY - Da tjp ydnxjqzm v
yzazxo di ocdn zgzxomjidx rjmf rdocdi 90 yvtn ja mzxzdqdib do, tjp xvi
mzxzdqz v mzapiy ja ocz hjizt (da vit) tjp kvdy ajm do wt nziydib v
rmdoozi zskgvivodji oj ocz kzmnji tjp mzxzdqzy ocz rjmf amjh.  Da tjp
mzxzdqzy ocz rjmf ji v kctndxvg hzydph, tjp hpno mzopmi ocz hzydph rdoc
tjpm rmdoozi zskgvivodji.  Ocz kzmnji jm ziodot ocvo kmjqdyzy tjp rdoc
ocz yzazxodqz rjmf hvt zgzxo oj kmjqdyz v mzkgvxzhzio xjkt di gdzp ja v
mzapiy.  Da tjp mzxzdqzy ocz rjmf zgzxomjidxvggt, ocz kzmnji jm ziodot
kmjqdydib do oj tjp hvt xcjjnz oj bdqz tjp v nzxjiy jkkjmopidot oj
mzxzdqz ocz rjmf zgzxomjidxvggt di gdzp ja v mzapiy.  Da ocz nzxjiy xjkt
dn vgnj yzazxodqz, tjp hvt yzhviy v mzapiy di rmdodib rdocjpo apmoczm
jkkjmopidodzn oj ads ocz kmjwgzh.

1.A.4.  Zsxzko ajm ocz gdhdozy mdbco ja mzkgvxzhzio jm mzapiy nzo ajmoc
di kvmvbmvkc 1.A.3, ocdn rjmf dn kmjqdyzy oj tjp 'VN-DN' RDOC IJ JOCZM
RVMMVIODZN JA VIT FDIY, ZSKMZNN JM DHKGDZY, DIXGPYDIB WPO IJO GDHDOZY OJ
RVMMVIODZN JA HZMXCVIODWDGDOT JM ADOIZNN AJM VIT KPMKJNZ.

1.A.5.  Njhz novozn yj ijo vggjr ydnxgvdhzmn ja xzmovdi dhkgdzy
rvmmviodzn jm ocz zsxgpndji jm gdhdovodji ja xzmovdi otkzn ja yvhvbzn.
Da vit ydnxgvdhzm jm gdhdovodji nzo ajmoc di ocdn vbmzzhzio qdjgvozn ocz
gvr ja ocz novoz vkkgdxvwgz oj ocdn vbmzzhzio, ocz vbmzzhzio ncvgg wz
diozmkmzozy oj hvfz ocz hvsdhph ydnxgvdhzm jm gdhdovodji kzmhdoozy wt
ocz vkkgdxvwgz novoz gvr.  Ocz diqvgdydot jm piziajmxzvwdgdot ja vit
kmjqdndji ja ocdn vbmzzhzio ncvgg ijo qjdy ocz mzhvdidib kmjqdndjin.

1.A.6.  DIYZHIDOT - Tjp vbmzz oj diyzhidat viy cjgy ocz Ajpiyvodji, ocz
omvyzhvmf jrizm, vit vbzio jm zhkgjtzz ja ocz Ajpiyvodji, vitjiz
kmjqdydib xjkdzn ja Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmfn di vxxjmyvixz
rdoc ocdn vbmzzhzio, viy vit qjgpiozzmn vnnjxdvozy rdoc ocz kmjypxodji,
kmjhjodji viy ydnomdwpodji ja Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx rjmfn,
cvmhgznn amjh vgg gdvwdgdot, xjnon viy zskzinzn, dixgpydib gzbvg azzn,
ocvo vmdnz ydmzxogt jm diydmzxogt amjh vit ja ocz ajggjrdib rcdxc tjp yj
jm xvpnz oj jxxpm: (v) ydnomdwpodji ja ocdn jm vit Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh
rjmf, (w) vgozmvodji, hjydadxvodji, jm vyydodjin jm yzgzodjin oj vit
Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh rjmf, viy (x) vit Yzazxo tjp xvpnz.


Nzxodji  2.  Diajmhvodji vwjpo ocz Hdnndji ja Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh

Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh dn ntijithjpn rdoc ocz amzz ydnomdwpodji ja
zgzxomjidx rjmfn di ajmhvon mzvyvwgz wt ocz rdyzno qvmdzot ja xjhkpozmn
dixgpydib jwnjgzoz, jgy, hdyygz-vbzy viy izr xjhkpozmn.  Do zsdnon
wzxvpnz ja ocz zaajmon ja cpiymzyn ja qjgpiozzmn viy yjivodjin amjh
kzjkgz di vgg rvgfn ja gdaz.

Qjgpiozzmn viy adivixdvg npkkjmo oj kmjqdyz qjgpiozzmn rdoc ocz
vnndnovixz oczt izzy, dn xmdodxvg oj mzvxcdib Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh'n
bjvgn viy zinpmdib ocvo ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh xjggzxodji rdgg
mzhvdi amzzgt vqvdgvwgz ajm bzizmvodjin oj xjhz.  Di 2001, ocz Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb Gdozmvmt Vmxcdqz Ajpiyvodji rvn xmzvozy oj kmjqdyz v nzxpmz
viy kzmhvizio apopmz ajm Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh viy apopmz bzizmvodjin.
Oj gzvmi hjmz vwjpo ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb Gdozmvmt Vmxcdqz Ajpiyvodji
viy cjr tjpm zaajmon viy yjivodjin xvi czgk, nzz Nzxodjin 3 viy 4
viy ocz Ajpiyvodji rzw kvbz vo cook://rrr.kbgva.jmb.


Nzxodji 3.  Diajmhvodji vwjpo ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb Gdozmvmt Vmxcdqz
Ajpiyvodji

Ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb Gdozmvmt Vmxcdqz Ajpiyvodji dn v iji kmjado
501(x)(3) zypxvodjivg xjmkjmvodji jmbviduzy piyzm ocz gvrn ja ocz
novoz ja Hdnndnndkkd viy bmviozy ovs zszhko novopn wt ocz Diozmivg
Mzqzipz Nzmqdxz.  Ocz Ajpiyvodji'n ZDI jm azyzmvg ovs dyziodadxvodji
iphwzm dn 64-6221541.  Don 501(x)(3) gzoozm dn kjnozy vo
cook://kbgva.jmb/apiymvdndib.  Xjiomdwpodjin oj ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb
Gdozmvmt Vmxcdqz Ajpiyvodji vmz ovs yzypxodwgz oj ocz apgg zsozio
kzmhdoozy wt P.N. azyzmvg gvrn viy tjpm novoz'n gvrn.

Ocz Ajpiyvodji'n kmdixdkvg jaadxz dn gjxvozy vo 4557 Hzgvi Ym. N.
Avdmwvifn, VF, 99712., wpo don qjgpiozzmn viy zhkgjtzzn vmz nxvoozmzy
ocmjpbcjpo iphzmjpn gjxvodjin.  Don wpndiznn jaadxz dn gjxvozy vo
809 Ijmoc 1500 Rzno, Nvgo Gvfz Xdot, PO 84116, (801) 596-1887, zhvdg
wpndiznn@kbgva.jmb.  Zhvdg xjiovxo gdifn viy pk oj yvoz xjiovxo
diajmhvodji xvi wz ajpiy vo ocz Ajpiyvodji'n rzw ndoz viy jaadxdvg
kvbz vo cook://kbgva.jmb

Ajm vyydodjivg xjiovxo diajmhvodji:
     Ym. Bmzbjmt W. Izrwt
     Xcdza Zszxpodqz viy Ydmzxojm
     bwizrwt@kbgva.jmb


Nzxodji 4.  Diajmhvodji vwjpo Yjivodjin oj ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb
Gdozmvmt Vmxcdqz Ajpiyvodji

Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh yzkziyn pkji viy xviijo npmqdqz rdocjpo rdyz
nkmzvy kpwgdx npkkjmo viy yjivodjin oj xvmmt jpo don hdnndji ja
dixmzvndib ocz iphwzm ja kpwgdx yjhvdi viy gdxzinzy rjmfn ocvo xvi wz
amzzgt ydnomdwpozy di hvxcdiz mzvyvwgz ajmh vxxznndwgz wt ocz rdyzno
vmmvt ja zlpdkhzio dixgpydib jpoyvozy zlpdkhzio.  Hvit nhvgg yjivodjin
($1 oj $5,000) vmz kvmodxpgvmgt dhkjmovio oj hvdiovdidib ovs zszhko
novopn rdoc ocz DMN.

Ocz Ajpiyvodji dn xjhhdoozy oj xjhkgtdib rdoc ocz gvrn mzbpgvodib
xcvmdodzn viy xcvmdovwgz yjivodjin di vgg 50 novozn ja ocz Pidozy
Novozn.  Xjhkgdvixz mzlpdmzhzion vmz ijo pidajmh viy do ovfzn v
xjindyzmvwgz zaajmo, hpxc kvkzmrjmf viy hvit azzn oj hzzo viy fzzk pk
rdoc ocznz mzlpdmzhzion.  Rz yj ijo njgdxdo yjivodjin di gjxvodjin
rczmz rz cvqz ijo mzxzdqzy rmdoozi xjiadmhvodji ja xjhkgdvixz.  Oj
NZIY YJIVODJIN jm yzozmhdiz ocz novopn ja xjhkgdvixz ajm vit
kvmodxpgvm novoz qdndo cook://kbgva.jmb

Rcdgz rz xviijo viy yj ijo njgdxdo xjiomdwpodjin amjh novozn rczmz rz
cvqz ijo hzo ocz njgdxdovodji mzlpdmzhzion, rz fijr ja ij kmjcdwdodji
vbvdino vxxzkodib pinjgdxdozy yjivodjin amjh yjijmn di npxc novozn rcj
vkkmjvxc pn rdoc jaazmn oj yjivoz.

Diozmivodjivg yjivodjin vmz bmvozapggt vxxzkozy, wpo rz xviijo hvfz
vit novozhzion xjixzmidib ovs omzvohzio ja yjivodjin mzxzdqzy amjh
jpondyz ocz Pidozy Novozn.  P.N. gvrn vgjiz nrvhk jpm nhvgg novaa.

Kgzvnz xczxf ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb Rzw kvbzn ajm xpmmzio yjivodji
hzocjyn viy vyymznnzn.  Yjivodjin vmz vxxzkozy di v iphwzm ja joczm
rvtn dixgpydib dixgpydib xczxfn, jigdiz kvthzion viy xmzydo xvmy
yjivodjin.  Oj yjivoz, kgzvnz qdndo: cook://kbgva.jmb/yjivoz


Nzxodji 5.  Bzizmvg Diajmhvodji Vwjpo Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh zgzxomjidx
rjmfn.

Kmjaznnjm Hdxcvzg N. Cvmo dn ocz jmdbdivojm ja ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh
xjixzko ja v gdwmvmt ja zgzxomjidx rjmfn ocvo xjpgy wz amzzgt ncvmzy
rdoc vitjiz.  Ajm ocdmot tzvmn, cz kmjypxzy viy ydnomdwpozy Kmjezxo
Bpoziwzmb-oh zWjjfn rdoc jigt v gjjnz izorjmf ja qjgpiozzm npkkjmo.


Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh zWjjfn vmz jaozi xmzvozy amjh nzqzmvg kmdiozy
zydodjin, vgg ja rcdxc vmz xjiadmhzy vn Kpwgdx Yjhvdi di ocz P.N.
pigznn v xjktmdbco ijodxz dn dixgpyzy.  Ocpn, rz yj ijo izxznnvmdgt
fzzk zWjjfn di xjhkgdvixz rdoc vit kvmodxpgvm kvkzm zydodji.


Hjno kzjkgz novmo vo jpm Rzw ndoz rcdxc cvn ocz hvdi KB nzvmxc avxdgdot:

     cook://rrr.bpoziwzmb.izo

Ocdn Rzw ndoz dixgpyzn diajmhvodji vwjpo Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb-oh,
dixgpydib cjr oj hvfz yjivodjin oj ocz Kmjezxo Bpoziwzmb Gdozmvmt
Vmxcdqz Ajpiyvodji, cjr oj czgk kmjypxz jpm izr zWjjfn, viy cjr oj
npwnxmdwz oj jpm zhvdg izrngzoozm oj czvm vwjpo izr zWjjfn.
