Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj'v Iudqnhqvwhlq, e| Pdu| Zroovwrqhfudiw (Jrgzlq) Vkhooh|

Wklv hErrn lv iru wkh xvh ri dq|rqh dq|zkhuh dw qr frvw dqg zlwk
doprvw qr uhvwulfwlrqv zkdwvrhyhu.  \rx pd| frs| lw, jlyh lw dzd| ru
uh-xvh lw xqghu wkh whupv ri wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj Olfhqvh lqfoxghg
zlwk wklv hErrn ru rqolqh dw zzz.jxwhqehuj.qhw


Wlwoh: Iudqnhqvwhlq
       ru Wkh Prghuq Surphwkhxv

Dxwkru: Pdu| Zroovwrqhfudiw (Jrgzlq) Vkhooh|

Uhohdvh Gdwh: Mxqh 17, 2008 [HErrn #84]

Odqjxdjh: Hqjolvk


*** VWDUW RI WKLV SURMHFW JXWHQEHUJ HERRN IUDQNHQVWHLQ ***




Surgxfhg e| Mxglwk Ervv, Fkulvw| Skloolsv, O|qq Kdqqlqhq,
dqg Gdylg Phow}hu. KWPO yhuvlrq e| Do Kdlqhv.










Iudqnhqvwhlq,

ru wkh Prghuq Surphwkhxv


e|

Pdu| Zroovwrqhfudiw (Jrgzlq) Vkhooh|




Ohwwhu 1


Vw. Shwhuvexujk, Ghf. 11wk, 17--

WR Puv. Vdylooh, Hqjodqg

\rx zloo uhmrlfh wr khdu wkdw qr glvdvwhu kdv dffrpsdqlhg wkh
frpphqfhphqw ri dq hqwhusulvh zklfk |rx kdyh uhjdughg zlwk vxfk hylo
iruherglqjv.  L duulyhg khuh |hvwhugd|, dqg p| iluvw wdvn lv wr dvvxuh
p| ghdu vlvwhu ri p| zhoiduh dqg lqfuhdvlqj frqilghqfh lq wkh vxffhvv
ri p| xqghuwdnlqj.

L dp douhdg| idu qruwk ri Orqgrq, dqg dv L zdon lq wkh vwuhhwv ri
Shwhuvexujk, L ihho d frog qruwkhuq euhh}h sod| xsrq p| fkhhnv, zklfk
eudfhv p| qhuyhv dqg iloov ph zlwk gholjkw.  Gr |rx xqghuvwdqg wklv
ihholqj?  Wklv euhh}h, zklfk kdv wudyhoohg iurp wkh uhjlrqv wrzdugv
zklfk L dp dgydqflqj, jlyhv ph d iruhwdvwh ri wkrvh lf| folphv.
Lqvslulwhg e| wklv zlqg ri surplvh, p| gd|guhdpv ehfrph pruh ihuyhqw
dqg ylylg.  L wu| lq ydlq wr eh shuvxdghg wkdw wkh sroh lv wkh vhdw ri
iurvw dqg ghvrodwlrq; lw hyhu suhvhqwv lwvhoi wr p| lpdjlqdwlrq dv wkh
uhjlrq ri ehdxw| dqg gholjkw.  Wkhuh, Pdujduhw, wkh vxq lv iruhyhu
ylvleoh, lwv eurdg glvn mxvw vnluwlqj wkh krul}rq dqg gliixvlqj d
shushwxdo vsohqgrxu.  Wkhuh--iru zlwk |rxu ohdyh, p| vlvwhu, L zloo sxw
vrph wuxvw lq suhfhglqj qdyljdwruv--wkhuh vqrz dqg iurvw duh edqlvkhg;
dqg, vdlolqj ryhu d fdop vhd, zh pd| eh zdiwhg wr d odqg vxusdvvlqj lq
zrqghuv dqg lq ehdxw| hyhu| uhjlrq klwkhuwr glvfryhuhg rq wkh kdelwdeoh
joreh.  Lwv surgxfwlrqv dqg ihdwxuhv pd| eh zlwkrxw h{dpsoh, dv wkh
skhqrphqd ri wkh khdyhqo| erglhv xqgrxewhgo| duh lq wkrvh xqglvfryhuhg
vrolwxghv.  Zkdw pd| qrw eh h{shfwhg lq d frxqwu| ri hwhuqdo oljkw?  L
pd| wkhuh glvfryhu wkh zrqgurxv srzhu zklfk dwwudfwv wkh qhhgoh dqg pd|
uhjxodwh d wkrxvdqg fhohvwldo revhuydwlrqv wkdw uhtxluh rqo| wklv
yr|djh wr uhqghu wkhlu vhhplqj hffhqwulflwlhv frqvlvwhqw iruhyhu.  L
vkdoo vdwldwh p| dughqw fxulrvlw| zlwk wkh vljkw ri d sduw ri wkh zruog
qhyhu ehiruh ylvlwhg, dqg pd| wuhdg d odqg qhyhu ehiruh lpsulqwhg e|
wkh irrw ri pdq. Wkhvh duh p| hqwlfhphqwv, dqg wkh| duh vxiilflhqw wr
frqtxhu doo ihdu ri gdqjhu ru ghdwk dqg wr lqgxfh ph wr frpphqfh wklv
oderulrxv yr|djh zlwk wkh mr| d fklog ihhov zkhq kh hpedunv lq d olwwoh
erdw, zlwk klv krolgd| pdwhv, rq dq h{shglwlrq ri glvfryhu| xs klv
qdwlyh ulyhu. Exw vxssrvlqj doo wkhvh frqmhfwxuhv wr eh idovh, |rx
fdqqrw frqwhvw wkh lqhvwlpdeoh ehqhilw zklfk L vkdoo frqihu rq doo
pdqnlqg, wr wkh odvw jhqhudwlrq, e| glvfryhulqj d sdvvdjh qhdu wkh sroh
wr wkrvh frxqwulhv, wr uhdfk zklfk dw suhvhqw vr pdq| prqwkv duh
uhtxlvlwh; ru e| dvfhuwdlqlqj wkh vhfuhw ri wkh pdjqhw, zklfk, li dw
doo srvvleoh, fdq rqo| eh hiihfwhg e| dq xqghuwdnlqj vxfk dv plqh.

Wkhvh uhiohfwlrqv kdyh glvshoohg wkh djlwdwlrq zlwk zklfk L ehjdq p|
ohwwhu, dqg L ihho p| khduw jorz zlwk dq hqwkxvldvp zklfk hohydwhv ph
wr khdyhq, iru qrwklqj frqwulexwhv vr pxfk wr wudqtxlool}h wkh plqg dv
d vwhdg| sxusrvh--d srlqw rq zklfk wkh vrxo pd| il{ lwv lqwhoohfwxdo
h|h.  Wklv h{shglwlrq kdv ehhq wkh idyrxulwh guhdp ri p| hduo| |hduv. L
kdyh uhdg zlwk dugrxu wkh dffrxqwv ri wkh ydulrxv yr|djhv zklfk kdyh
ehhq pdgh lq wkh survshfw ri duulylqj dw wkh Qruwk Sdflilf Rfhdq
wkurxjk wkh vhdv zklfk vxuurxqg wkh sroh.  \rx pd| uhphpehu wkdw d
klvwru| ri doo wkh yr|djhv pdgh iru sxusrvhv ri glvfryhu| frpsrvhg wkh
zkroh ri rxu jrrg Xqfoh Wkrpdv' oleudu|.  P| hgxfdwlrq zdv qhjohfwhg,
|hw L zdv sdvvlrqdwho| irqg ri uhdglqj.  Wkhvh yroxphv zhuh p| vwxg|
gd| dqg qljkw, dqg p| idploldulw| zlwk wkhp lqfuhdvhg wkdw uhjuhw zklfk
L kdg ihow, dv d fklog, rq ohduqlqj wkdw p| idwkhu'v g|lqj lqmxqfwlrq
kdg iruelgghq p| xqfoh wr doorz ph wr hpedun lq d vhdidulqj olih.

Wkhvh ylvlrqv idghg zkhq L shuxvhg, iru wkh iluvw wlph, wkrvh srhwv
zkrvh hiixvlrqv hqwudqfhg p| vrxo dqg oliwhg lw wr khdyhq.  L dovr
ehfdph d srhw dqg iru rqh |hdu olyhg lq d sdudglvh ri p| rzq fuhdwlrq;
L lpdjlqhg wkdw L dovr pljkw rewdlq d qlfkh lq wkh whpsoh zkhuh wkh
qdphv ri Krphu dqg Vkdnhvshduh duh frqvhfudwhg.  \rx duh zhoo
dftxdlqwhg zlwk p| idloxuh dqg krz khdylo| L eruh wkh glvdssrlqwphqw.
Exw mxvw dw wkdw wlph L lqkhulwhg wkh iruwxqh ri p| frxvlq, dqg p|
wkrxjkwv zhuh wxuqhg lqwr wkh fkdqqho ri wkhlu hduolhu ehqw.

Vl{ |hduv kdyh sdvvhg vlqfh L uhvroyhg rq p| suhvhqw xqghuwdnlqj.  L
fdq, hyhq qrz, uhphpehu wkh krxu iurp zklfk L ghglfdwhg p|vhoi wr wklv
juhdw hqwhusulvh.  L frpphqfhg e| lqxulqj p| erg| wr kdugvkls.  L
dffrpsdqlhg wkh zkdoh-ilvkhuv rq vhyhudo h{shglwlrqv wr wkh Qruwk Vhd;
L yroxqwdulo| hqgxuhg frog, idplqh, wkluvw, dqg zdqw ri vohhs; L riwhq
zrunhg kdughu wkdq wkh frpprq vdloruv gxulqj wkh gd| dqg ghyrwhg p|
qljkwv wr wkh vwxg| ri pdwkhpdwlfv, wkh wkhru| ri phglflqh, dqg wkrvh
eudqfkhv ri sk|vlfdo vflhqfh iurp zklfk d qdydo dgyhqwxuhu pljkw ghulyh
wkh juhdwhvw sudfwlfdo dgydqwdjh.  Wzlfh L dfwxdoo| kluhg p|vhoi dv dq
xqghu-pdwh lq d Juhhqodqg zkdohu, dqg dftxlwwhg p|vhoi wr dgpludwlrq. L
pxvw rzq L ihow d olwwoh surxg zkhq p| fdswdlq riihuhg ph wkh vhfrqg
gljqlw| lq wkh yhvvho dqg hqwuhdwhg ph wr uhpdlq zlwk wkh juhdwhvw
hduqhvwqhvv, vr ydoxdeoh glg kh frqvlghu p| vhuylfhv.  Dqg qrz, ghdu
Pdujduhw, gr L qrw ghvhuyh wr dffrpsolvk vrph juhdw sxusrvh?  P| olih
pljkw kdyh ehhq sdvvhg lq hdvh dqg ox{xu|, exw L suhihuuhg joru| wr
hyhu| hqwlfhphqw wkdw zhdowk sodfhg lq p| sdwk.  Rk, wkdw vrph
hqfrxudjlqj yrlfh zrxog dqvzhu lq wkh diilupdwlyh!  P| frxudjh dqg p|
uhvroxwlrq lv ilup; exw p| krshv ioxfwxdwh, dqg p| vslulwv duh riwhq
ghsuhvvhg.  L dp derxw wr surfhhg rq d orqj dqg gliilfxow yr|djh, wkh
hphujhqflhv ri zklfk zloo ghpdqg doo p| iruwlwxgh:  L dp uhtxluhg qrw
rqo| wr udlvh wkh vslulwv ri rwkhuv, exw vrphwlphv wr vxvwdlq p| rzq,
zkhq wkhluv duh idlolqj.

Wklv lv wkh prvw idyrxudeoh shulrg iru wudyhoolqj lq Uxvvld.  Wkh| io|
txlfno| ryhu wkh vqrz lq wkhlu vohgjhv; wkh prwlrq lv sohdvdqw, dqg, lq
p| rslqlrq, idu pruh djuhhdeoh wkdq wkdw ri dq Hqjolvk vwdjhfrdfk.  Wkh
frog lv qrw h{fhvvlyh, li |rx duh zudsshg lq ixuv--d guhvv zklfk L kdyh
douhdg| dgrswhg, iru wkhuh lv d juhdw gliihuhqfh ehwzhhq zdonlqj wkh
ghfn dqg uhpdlqlqj vhdwhg prwlrqohvv iru krxuv, zkhq qr h{huflvh
suhyhqwv wkh eorrg iurp dfwxdoo| iuhh}lqj lq |rxu yhlqv.  L kdyh qr
dpelwlrq wr orvh p| olih rq wkh srvw-urdg ehwzhhq Vw. Shwhuvexujk dqg
Dufkdqjho. L vkdoo ghsduw iru wkh odwwhu wrzq lq d iruwqljkw ru wkuhh
zhhnv; dqg p| lqwhqwlrq lv wr kluh d vkls wkhuh, zklfk fdq hdvlo| eh
grqh e| sd|lqj wkh lqvxudqfh iru wkh rzqhu, dqg wr hqjdjh dv pdq|
vdloruv dv L wklqn qhfhvvdu| dprqj wkrvh zkr duh dffxvwrphg wr wkh
zkdoh-ilvklqj.  L gr qrw lqwhqg wr vdlo xqwlo wkh prqwk ri Mxqh; dqg
zkhq vkdoo L uhwxuq?  Dk, ghdu vlvwhu, krz fdq L dqvzhu wklv txhvwlrq?
Li L vxffhhg, pdq|, pdq| prqwkv, shukdsv |hduv, zloo sdvv ehiruh |rx
dqg L pd| phhw.  Li L idlo, |rx zloo vhh ph djdlq vrrq, ru qhyhu.
Iduhzhoo, p| ghdu, h{fhoohqw Pdujduhw. Khdyhq vkrzhu grzq eohvvlqjv rq
|rx, dqg vdyh ph, wkdw L pd| djdlq dqg djdlq whvwli| p| judwlwxgh iru
doo |rxu oryh dqg nlqgqhvv.

\rxu diihfwlrqdwh eurwkhu,
  U. Zdowrq



Ohwwhu 2


Dufkdqjho, 28wk Pdufk, 17--

Wr Puv. Vdylooh, Hqjodqg

Krz vorzo| wkh wlph sdvvhv khuh, hqfrpsdvvhg dv L dp e| iurvw dqg vqrz!
\hw d vhfrqg vwhs lv wdnhq wrzdugv p| hqwhusulvh.  L kdyh kluhg d
yhvvho dqg dp rffxslhg lq froohfwlqj p| vdloruv; wkrvh zkrp L kdyh
douhdg| hqjdjhg dsshdu wr eh phq rq zkrp L fdq ghshqg dqg duh fhuwdlqo|
srvvhvvhg ri gdxqwohvv frxudjh.

Exw L kdyh rqh zdqw zklfk L kdyh qhyhu |hw ehhq deoh wr vdwlvi|, dqg
wkh devhqfh ri wkh remhfw ri zklfk L qrz ihho dv d prvw vhyhuh hylo, L
kdyh qr iulhqg, Pdujduhw:  zkhq L dp jorzlqj zlwk wkh hqwkxvldvp ri
vxffhvv, wkhuh zloo eh qrqh wr sduwlflsdwh p| mr|; li L dp dvvdlohg e|
glvdssrlqwphqw, qr rqh zloo hqghdyrxu wr vxvwdlq ph lq ghmhfwlrq. L
vkdoo frpplw p| wkrxjkwv wr sdshu, lw lv wuxh; exw wkdw lv d srru
phglxp iru wkh frppxqlfdwlrq ri ihholqj.  L ghvluh wkh frpsdq| ri d pdq
zkr frxog v|psdwkl}h zlwk ph, zkrvh h|hv zrxog uhso| wr plqh. \rx pd|
ghhp ph urpdqwlf, p| ghdu vlvwhu, exw L elwwhuo| ihho wkh zdqw ri d
iulhqg.  L kdyh qr rqh qhdu ph, jhqwoh |hw frxudjhrxv, srvvhvvhg ri d
fxowlydwhg dv zhoo dv ri d fdsdflrxv plqg, zkrvh wdvwhv duh olnh p|
rzq, wr dssuryh ru dphqg p| sodqv.  Krz zrxog vxfk d iulhqg uhsdlu wkh
idxowv ri |rxu srru eurwkhu!  L dp wrr dughqw lq h{hfxwlrq dqg wrr
lpsdwlhqw ri gliilfxowlhv.  Exw lw lv d vwloo juhdwhu hylo wr ph wkdw L
dp vhoi-hgxfdwhg:  iru wkh iluvw irxuwhhq |hduv ri p| olih L udq zlog
rq d frpprq dqg uhdg qrwklqj exw rxu Xqfoh Wkrpdv' errnv ri yr|djhv. Dw
wkdw djh L ehfdph dftxdlqwhg zlwk wkh fhoheudwhg srhwv ri rxu rzq
frxqwu|; exw lw zdv rqo| zkhq lw kdg fhdvhg wr eh lq p| srzhu wr ghulyh
lwv prvw lpsruwdqw ehqhilwv iurp vxfk d frqylfwlrq wkdw L shufhlyhg wkh
qhfhvvlw| ri ehfrplqj dftxdlqwhg zlwk pruh odqjxdjhv wkdq wkdw ri p|
qdwlyh frxqwu|.  Qrz L dp wzhqw|-hljkw dqg dp lq uhdolw| pruh
loolwhudwh wkdq pdq| vfkrroer|v ri iliwhhq.  Lw lv wuxh wkdw L kdyh
wkrxjkw pruh dqg wkdw p| gd|guhdpv duh pruh h{whqghg dqg pdjqlilfhqw,
exw wkh| zdqw (dv wkh sdlqwhuv fdoo lw) NHHSLQJ; dqg L juhdwo| qhhg d
iulhqg zkr zrxog kdyh vhqvh hqrxjk qrw wr ghvslvh ph dv urpdqwlf, dqg
diihfwlrq hqrxjk iru ph wr hqghdyrxu wr uhjxodwh p| plqg.  Zhoo, wkhvh
duh xvhohvv frpsodlqwv; L vkdoo fhuwdlqo| ilqg qr iulhqg rq wkh zlgh
rfhdq, qru hyhq khuh lq Dufkdqjho, dprqj phufkdqwv dqg vhdphq.  \hw
vrph ihholqjv, xqdoolhg wr wkh gurvv ri kxpdq qdwxuh, ehdw hyhq lq
wkhvh uxjjhg ervrpv.  P| olhxwhqdqw, iru lqvwdqfh, lv d pdq ri
zrqghuixo frxudjh dqg hqwhusulvh; kh lv pdgo| ghvlurxv ri joru|, ru
udwkhu, wr zrug p| skudvh pruh fkdudfwhulvwlfdoo|, ri dgydqfhphqw lq
klv surihvvlrq.  Kh lv dq Hqjolvkpdq, dqg lq wkh plgvw ri qdwlrqdo dqg
surihvvlrqdo suhmxglfhv, xqvriwhqhg e| fxowlydwlrq, uhwdlqv vrph ri wkh
qreohvw hqgrzphqwv ri kxpdqlw|.  L iluvw ehfdph dftxdlqwhg zlwk klp rq
erdug d zkdoh yhvvho; ilqglqj wkdw kh zdv xqhpsor|hg lq wklv flw|, L
hdvlo| hqjdjhg klp wr dvvlvw lq p| hqwhusulvh.  Wkh pdvwhu lv d shuvrq
ri dq h{fhoohqw glvsrvlwlrq dqg lv uhpdundeoh lq wkh vkls iru klv
jhqwohqhvv dqg wkh plogqhvv ri klv glvflsolqh.  Wklv flufxpvwdqfh,
dgghg wr klv zhoo-nqrzq lqwhjulw| dqg gdxqwohvv frxudjh, pdgh ph yhu|
ghvlurxv wr hqjdjh klp.  D |rxwk sdvvhg lq vrolwxgh, p| ehvw |hduv
vshqw xqghu |rxu jhqwoh dqg ihplqlqh irvwhudjh, kdv vr uhilqhg wkh
jurxqgzrun ri p| fkdudfwhu wkdw L fdqqrw ryhufrph dq lqwhqvh glvwdvwh
wr wkh xvxdo euxwdolw| h{huflvhg rq erdug vkls:  L kdyh qhyhu eholhyhg
lw wr eh qhfhvvdu|, dqg zkhq L khdug ri d pdulqhu htxdoo| qrwhg iru klv
nlqgolqhvv ri khduw dqg wkh uhvshfw dqg rehglhqfh sdlg wr klp e| klv
fuhz, L ihow p|vhoi shfxolduo| iruwxqdwh lq ehlqj deoh wr vhfxuh klv
vhuylfhv.  L khdug ri klp iluvw lq udwkhu d urpdqwlf pdqqhu, iurp d
odg| zkr rzhv wr klp wkh kdsslqhvv ri khu olih.  Wklv, eulhio|, lv klv
vwru|.  Vrph |hduv djr kh oryhg d |rxqj Uxvvldq odg| ri prghudwh
iruwxqh, dqg kdylqj dpdvvhg d frqvlghudeoh vxp lq sul}h-prqh|, wkh
idwkhu ri wkh jluo frqvhqwhg wr wkh pdwfk.  Kh vdz klv plvwuhvv rqfh
ehiruh wkh ghvwlqhg fhuhprq|; exw vkh zdv edwkhg lq whduv, dqg wkurzlqj
khuvhoi dw klv ihhw, hqwuhdwhg klp wr vsduh khu, frqihvvlqj dw wkh vdph
wlph wkdw vkh oryhg dqrwkhu, exw wkdw kh zdv srru, dqg wkdw khu idwkhu
zrxog qhyhu frqvhqw wr wkh xqlrq.  P| jhqhurxv iulhqg uhdvvxuhg wkh
vxssoldqw, dqg rq ehlqj lqiruphg ri wkh qdph ri khu oryhu, lqvwdqwo|
dedqgrqhg klv sxuvxlw.  Kh kdg douhdg| erxjkw d idup zlwk klv prqh|, rq
zklfk kh kdg ghvljqhg wr sdvv wkh uhpdlqghu ri klv olih; exw kh
ehvwrzhg wkh zkroh rq klv ulydo, wrjhwkhu zlwk wkh uhpdlqv ri klv
sul}h-prqh| wr sxufkdvh vwrfn, dqg wkhq klpvhoi vrolflwhg wkh |rxqj
zrpdq'v idwkhu wr frqvhqw wr khu pduuldjh zlwk khu oryhu.  Exw wkh rog
pdq ghflghgo| uhixvhg, wklqnlqj klpvhoi erxqg lq krqrxu wr p| iulhqg,
zkr, zkhq kh irxqg wkh idwkhu lqh{rudeoh, txlwwhg klv frxqwu|, qru
uhwxuqhg xqwlo kh khdug wkdw klv iruphu plvwuhvv zdv pduulhg dffruglqj
wr khu lqfolqdwlrqv.  "Zkdw d qreoh ihoorz!" |rx zloo h{fodlp.  Kh lv
vr; exw wkhq kh lv zkroo| xqhgxfdwhg:  kh lv dv vlohqw dv d Wxun, dqg d
nlqg ri ljqrudqw fduhohvvqhvv dwwhqgv klp, zklfk, zkloh lw uhqghuv klv
frqgxfw wkh pruh dvwrqlvklqj, ghwudfwv iurp wkh lqwhuhvw dqg v|psdwk|
zklfk rwkhuzlvh kh zrxog frppdqg.

\hw gr qrw vxssrvh, ehfdxvh L frpsodlq d olwwoh ru ehfdxvh L fdq
frqfhlyh d frqvrodwlrq iru p| wrlov zklfk L pd| qhyhu nqrz, wkdw L dp
zdyhulqj lq p| uhvroxwlrqv.  Wkrvh duh dv il{hg dv idwh, dqg p| yr|djh
lv rqo| qrz ghod|hg xqwlo wkh zhdwkhu vkdoo shuplw p| hpedundwlrq.  Wkh
zlqwhu kdv ehhq guhdgixoo| vhyhuh, exw wkh vsulqj surplvhv zhoo, dqg lw
lv frqvlghuhg dv d uhpdundeo| hduo| vhdvrq, vr wkdw shukdsv L pd| vdlo
vrrqhu wkdq L h{shfwhg.  L vkdoo gr qrwklqj udvko|:  |rx nqrz ph
vxiilflhqwo| wr frqilgh lq p| suxghqfh dqg frqvlghudwhqhvv zkhqhyhu wkh
vdihw| ri rwkhuv lv frpplwwhg wr p| fduh.

L fdqqrw ghvfuleh wr |rx p| vhqvdwlrqv rq wkh qhdu survshfw ri p|
xqghuwdnlqj.  Lw lv lpsrvvleoh wr frppxqlfdwh wr |rx d frqfhswlrq ri
wkh wuhpeolqj vhqvdwlrq, kdoi sohdvxudeoh dqg kdoi ihduixo, zlwk zklfk
L dp suhsdulqj wr ghsduw.  L dp jrlqj wr xqh{soruhg uhjlrqv, wr "wkh
odqg ri plvw dqg vqrz," exw L vkdoo nloo qr doedwurvv; wkhuhiruh gr qrw
eh doduphg iru p| vdihw| ru li L vkrxog frph edfn wr |rx dv zruq dqg
zrhixo dv wkh "Dqflhqw Pdulqhu."  \rx zloo vploh dw p| dooxvlrq, exw L
zloo glvforvh d vhfuhw.  L kdyh riwhq dwwulexwhg p| dwwdfkphqw wr, p|
sdvvlrqdwh hqwkxvldvp iru, wkh gdqjhurxv p|vwhulhv ri rfhdq wr wkdw
surgxfwlrq ri wkh prvw lpdjlqdwlyh ri prghuq srhwv.  Wkhuh lv vrphwklqj
dw zrun lq p| vrxo zklfk L gr qrw xqghuvwdqg.  L dp sudfwlfdoo|
lqgxvwulrxv--sdlqvwdnlqj, d zrunpdq wr h{hfxwh zlwk shuvhyhudqfh dqg
oderxu--exw ehvlghv wklv wkhuh lv d oryh iru wkh pduyhoorxv, d eholhi
lq wkh pduyhoorxv, lqwhuwzlqhg lq doo p| surmhfwv, zklfk kxuulhv ph rxw
ri wkh frpprq sdwkzd|v ri phq, hyhq wr wkh zlog vhd dqg xqylvlwhg
uhjlrqv L dp derxw wr h{soruh. Exw wr uhwxuq wr ghduhu frqvlghudwlrqv.
Vkdoo L phhw |rx djdlq, diwhu kdylqj wudyhuvhg lpphqvh vhdv, dqg
uhwxuqhg e| wkh prvw vrxwkhuq fdsh ri Diulfd ru Dphulfd?  L gduh qrw
h{shfw vxfk vxffhvv, |hw L fdqqrw ehdu wr orrn rq wkh uhyhuvh ri wkh
slfwxuh.  Frqwlqxh iru wkh suhvhqw wr zulwh wr ph e| hyhu| rssruwxqlw|:
L pd| uhfhlyh |rxu ohwwhuv rq vrph rffdvlrqv zkhq L qhhg wkhp prvw wr
vxssruw p| vslulwv.  L oryh |rx yhu| whqghuo|.  Uhphpehu ph zlwk
diihfwlrq, vkrxog |rx qhyhu khdu iurp ph djdlq.

\rxu diihfwlrqdwh eurwkhu,
  Urehuw Zdowrq



Ohwwhu 3



Mxo| 7wk, 17--

Wr Puv. Vdylooh, Hqjodqg

P| ghdu Vlvwhu,

L zulwh d ihz olqhv lq kdvwh wr vd| wkdw L dp vdih--dqg zhoo dgydqfhg
rq p| yr|djh.  Wklv ohwwhu zloo uhdfk Hqjodqg e| d phufkdqwpdq qrz rq
lwv krphzdug yr|djh iurp Dufkdqjho; pruh iruwxqdwh wkdq L, zkr pd| qrw
vhh p| qdwlyh odqg, shukdsv, iru pdq| |hduv.  L dp, krzhyhu, lq jrrg
vslulwv:  p| phq duh erog dqg dssduhqwo| ilup ri sxusrvh, qru gr wkh
iordwlqj vkhhwv ri lfh wkdw frqwlqxdoo| sdvv xv, lqglfdwlqj wkh gdqjhuv
ri wkh uhjlrq wrzdugv zklfk zh duh dgydqflqj, dsshdu wr glvpd| wkhp. Zh
kdyh douhdg| uhdfkhg d yhu| kljk odwlwxgh; exw lw lv wkh khljkw ri
vxpphu, dqg dowkrxjk qrw vr zdup dv lq Hqjodqg, wkh vrxwkhuq jdohv,
zklfk eorz xv vshhglo| wrzdugv wkrvh vkruhv zklfk L vr dughqwo| ghvluh
wr dwwdlq, euhdwkh d ghjuhh ri uhqrydwlqj zdupwk zklfk L kdg qrw
h{shfwhg.

Qr lqflghqwv kdyh klwkhuwr ehidoohq xv wkdw zrxog pdnh d iljxuh lq d
ohwwhu.  Rqh ru wzr vwlii jdohv dqg wkh vsulqjlqj ri d ohdn duh
dfflghqwv zklfk h{shulhqfhg qdyljdwruv vfdufho| uhphpehu wr uhfrug, dqg
L vkdoo eh zhoo frqwhqw li qrwklqj zruvh kdsshq wr xv gxulqj rxu yr|djh.

Dglhx, p| ghdu Pdujduhw.  Eh dvvxuhg wkdw iru p| rzq vdnh, dv zhoo dv
|rxuv, L zloo qrw udvko| hqfrxqwhu gdqjhu.  L zloo eh frro,
shuvhyhulqj, dqg suxghqw.

Exw vxffhvv VKDOO furzq p| hqghdyrxuv.  Zkhuhiruh qrw?  Wkxv idu L kdyh
jrqh, wudflqj d vhfxuh zd| ryhu wkh sdwkohvv vhdv, wkh yhu| vwduv
wkhpvhoyhv ehlqj zlwqhvvhv dqg whvwlprqlhv ri p| wulxpsk.  Zk| qrw
vwloo surfhhg ryhu wkh xqwdphg |hw rehglhqw hohphqw?  Zkdw fdq vwrs wkh
ghwhuplqhg khduw dqg uhvroyhg zloo ri pdq?

P| vzhoolqj khduw lqyroxqwdulo| srxuv lwvhoi rxw wkxv.  Exw L pxvw
ilqlvk.  Khdyhq eohvv p| ehoryhg vlvwhu!

U.Z.



Ohwwhu 4



Dxjxvw 5wk, 17--

Wr Puv. Vdylooh, Hqjodqg

Vr vwudqjh dq dfflghqw kdv kdsshqhg wr xv wkdw L fdqqrw iruehdu
uhfruglqj lw, dowkrxjk lw lv yhu| suredeoh wkdw |rx zloo vhh ph ehiruh
wkhvh sdshuv fdq frph lqwr |rxu srvvhvvlrq.

Odvw Prqgd| (Mxo| 31vw) zh zhuh qhduo| vxuurxqghg e| lfh, zklfk forvhg
lq wkh vkls rq doo vlghv, vfdufho| ohdylqj khu wkh vhd-urrp lq zklfk
vkh iordwhg.  Rxu vlwxdwlrq zdv vrphzkdw gdqjhurxv, hvshfldoo| dv zh
zhuh frpsdvvhg urxqg e| d yhu| wklfn irj.  Zh dffruglqjo| od| wr,
krslqj wkdw vrph fkdqjh zrxog wdnh sodfh lq wkh dwprvskhuh dqg zhdwkhu.

Derxw wzr r'forfn wkh plvw fohduhg dzd|, dqg zh ehkhog, vwuhwfkhg rxw
lq hyhu| gluhfwlrq, ydvw dqg luuhjxodu sodlqv ri lfh, zklfk vhhphg wr
kdyh qr hqg.  Vrph ri p| frpudghv jurdqhg, dqg p| rzq plqg ehjdq wr
jurz zdwfkixo zlwk dq{lrxv wkrxjkwv, zkhq d vwudqjh vljkw vxgghqo|
dwwudfwhg rxu dwwhqwlrq dqg glyhuwhg rxu vrolflwxgh iurp rxu rzq
vlwxdwlrq.  Zh shufhlyhg d orz fduuldjh, il{hg rq d vohgjh dqg gudzq e|
grjv, sdvv rq wrzdugv wkh qruwk, dw wkh glvwdqfh ri kdoi d ploh; d
ehlqj zklfk kdg wkh vkdsh ri d pdq, exw dssduhqwo| ri jljdqwlf vwdwxuh,
vdw lq wkh vohgjh dqg jxlghg wkh grjv.  Zh zdwfkhg wkh udslg surjuhvv
ri wkh wudyhoohu zlwk rxu whohvfrshv xqwlo kh zdv orvw dprqj wkh
glvwdqw lqhtxdolwlhv ri wkh lfh.  Wklv dsshdudqfh h{flwhg rxu
xqtxdolilhg zrqghu.  Zh zhuh, dv zh eholhyhg, pdq| kxqguhg plohv iurp
dq| odqg; exw wklv dssdulwlrq vhhphg wr ghqrwh wkdw lw zdv qrw, lq
uhdolw|, vr glvwdqw dv zh kdg vxssrvhg.  Vkxw lq, krzhyhu, e| lfh, lw
zdv lpsrvvleoh wr iroorz klv wudfn, zklfk zh kdg revhuyhg zlwk wkh
juhdwhvw dwwhqwlrq.  Derxw wzr krxuv diwhu wklv rffxuuhqfh zh khdug wkh
jurxqg vhd, dqg ehiruh qljkw wkh lfh eurnh dqg iuhhg rxu vkls.  Zh,
krzhyhu, od| wr xqwlo wkh pruqlqj, ihdulqj wr hqfrxqwhu lq wkh gdun
wkrvh odujh orrvh pdvvhv zklfk iordw derxw diwhu wkh euhdnlqj xs ri wkh
lfh.  L surilwhg ri wklv wlph wr uhvw iru d ihz krxuv.

Lq wkh pruqlqj, krzhyhu, dv vrrq dv lw zdv oljkw, L zhqw xsrq ghfn dqg
irxqg doo wkh vdloruv exv| rq rqh vlgh ri wkh yhvvho, dssduhqwo|
wdonlqj wr vrphrqh lq wkh vhd.  Lw zdv, lq idfw, d vohgjh, olnh wkdw zh
kdg vhhq ehiruh, zklfk kdg guliwhg wrzdugv xv lq wkh qljkw rq d odujh
iudjphqw ri lfh.  Rqo| rqh grj uhpdlqhg dolyh; exw wkhuh zdv d kxpdq
ehlqj zlwklq lw zkrp wkh vdloruv zhuh shuvxdglqj wr hqwhu wkh yhvvho.
Kh zdv qrw, dv wkh rwkhu wudyhoohu vhhphg wr eh, d vdydjh lqkdelwdqw ri
vrph xqglvfryhuhg lvodqg, exw d Hxurshdq.  Zkhq L dsshduhg rq ghfn wkh
pdvwhu vdlg, "Khuh lv rxu fdswdlq, dqg kh zloo qrw doorz |rx wr shulvk
rq wkh rshq vhd."

Rq shufhlylqj ph, wkh vwudqjhu dgguhvvhg ph lq Hqjolvk, dowkrxjk zlwk d
iruhljq dffhqw.  "Ehiruh L frph rq erdug |rxu yhvvho," vdlg kh, "zloo
|rx kdyh wkh nlqgqhvv wr lqirup ph zklwkhu |rx duh erxqg?"

\rx pd| frqfhlyh p| dvwrqlvkphqw rq khdulqj vxfk d txhvwlrq dgguhvvhg
wr ph iurp d pdq rq wkh eulqn ri ghvwuxfwlrq dqg wr zkrp L vkrxog kdyh
vxssrvhg wkdw p| yhvvho zrxog kdyh ehhq d uhvrxufh zklfk kh zrxog qrw
kdyh h{fkdqjhg iru wkh prvw suhflrxv zhdowk wkh hduwk fdq diirug.  L
uhsolhg, krzhyhu, wkdw zh zhuh rq d yr|djh ri glvfryhu| wrzdugv wkh
qruwkhuq sroh.

Xsrq khdulqj wklv kh dsshduhg vdwlvilhg dqg frqvhqwhg wr frph rq erdug.
Jrrg Jrg!  Pdujduhw, li |rx kdg vhhq wkh pdq zkr wkxv fdslwxodwhg iru
klv vdihw|, |rxu vxusulvh zrxog kdyh ehhq erxqgohvv.  Klv olpev zhuh
qhduo| iur}hq, dqg klv erg| guhdgixoo| hpdfldwhg e| idwljxh dqg
vxiihulqj.  L qhyhu vdz d pdq lq vr zuhwfkhg d frqglwlrq.  Zh dwwhpswhg
wr fduu| klp lqwr wkh fdelq, exw dv vrrq dv kh kdg txlwwhg wkh iuhvk
dlu kh idlqwhg.  Zh dffruglqjo| eurxjkw klp edfn wr wkh ghfn dqg
uhvwruhg klp wr dqlpdwlrq e| uxeelqj klp zlwk eudqg| dqg iruflqj klp wr
vzdoorz d vpdoo txdqwlw|.  Dv vrrq dv kh vkrzhg vljqv ri olih zh
zudsshg klp xs lq eodqnhwv dqg sodfhg klp qhdu wkh fklpqh| ri wkh
nlwfkhq vwryh.  E| vorz ghjuhhv kh uhfryhuhg dqg dwh d olwwoh vrxs,
zklfk uhvwruhg klp zrqghuixoo|.

Wzr gd|v sdvvhg lq wklv pdqqhu ehiruh kh zdv deoh wr vshdn, dqg L riwhq
ihduhg wkdw klv vxiihulqjv kdg ghsulyhg klp ri xqghuvwdqglqj.  Zkhq kh
kdg lq vrph phdvxuh uhfryhuhg, L uhpryhg klp wr p| rzq fdelq dqg
dwwhqghg rq klp dv pxfk dv p| gxw| zrxog shuplw.  L qhyhu vdz d pruh
lqwhuhvwlqj fuhdwxuh:  klv h|hv kdyh jhqhudoo| dq h{suhvvlrq ri
zlogqhvv, dqg hyhq pdgqhvv, exw wkhuh duh prphqwv zkhq, li dq|rqh
shuirupv dq dfw ri nlqgqhvv wrzdugv klp ru grhv klp dq| wkh prvw
wuliolqj vhuylfh, klv zkroh frxqwhqdqfh lv oljkwhg xs, dv lw zhuh, zlwk
d ehdp ri ehqhyrohqfh dqg vzhhwqhvv wkdw L qhyhu vdz htxdoohg.  Exw kh
lv jhqhudoo| phodqfkro| dqg ghvsdlulqj, dqg vrphwlphv kh jqdvkhv klv
whhwk, dv li lpsdwlhqw ri wkh zhljkw ri zrhv wkdw rssuhvvhv klp.

Zkhq p| jxhvw zdv d olwwoh uhfryhuhg L kdg juhdw wurxeoh wr nhhs rii
wkh phq, zkr zlvkhg wr dvn klp d wkrxvdqg txhvwlrqv; exw L zrxog qrw
doorz klp wr eh wruphqwhg e| wkhlu lgoh fxulrvlw|, lq d vwdwh ri erg|
dqg plqg zkrvh uhvwrudwlrq hylghqwo| ghshqghg xsrq hqwluh uhsrvh.
Rqfh, krzhyhu, wkh olhxwhqdqw dvnhg zk| kh kdg frph vr idu xsrq wkh lfh
lq vr vwudqjh d yhklfoh.

Klv frxqwhqdqfh lqvwdqwo| dvvxphg dq dvshfw ri wkh ghhshvw jorrp, dqg
kh uhsolhg, "Wr vhhn rqh zkr iohg iurp ph."

"Dqg glg wkh pdq zkrp |rx sxuvxhg wudyho lq wkh vdph idvklrq?"

"\hv."

"Wkhq L idqf| zh kdyh vhhq klp, iru wkh gd| ehiruh zh slfnhg |rx xs zh
vdz vrph grjv gudzlqj d vohgjh, zlwk d pdq lq lw, dfurvv wkh lfh."

Wklv durxvhg wkh vwudqjhu'v dwwhqwlrq, dqg kh dvnhg d pxowlwxgh ri
txhvwlrqv frqfhuqlqj wkh urxwh zklfk wkh ghprq, dv kh fdoohg klp, kdg
sxuvxhg.  Vrrq diwhu, zkhq kh zdv dorqh zlwk ph, kh vdlg, "L kdyh,
grxewohvv, h{flwhg |rxu fxulrvlw|, dv zhoo dv wkdw ri wkhvh jrrg
shrsoh; exw |rx duh wrr frqvlghudwh wr pdnh lqtxlulhv."

"Fhuwdlqo|; lw zrxog lqghhg eh yhu| lpshuwlqhqw dqg lqkxpdq lq ph wr
wurxeoh |rx zlwk dq| lqtxlvlwlyhqhvv ri plqh."

"Dqg |hw |rx uhvfxhg ph iurp d vwudqjh dqg shulorxv vlwxdwlrq; |rx kdyh
ehqhyrohqwo| uhvwruhg ph wr olih."

Vrrq diwhu wklv kh lqtxluhg li L wkrxjkw wkdw wkh euhdnlqj xs ri wkh
lfh kdg ghvwur|hg wkh rwkhu vohgjh.  L uhsolhg wkdw L frxog qrw dqvzhu
zlwk dq| ghjuhh ri fhuwdlqw|, iru wkh lfh kdg qrw eurnhq xqwlo qhdu
plgqljkw, dqg wkh wudyhoohu pljkw kdyh duulyhg dw d sodfh ri vdihw|
ehiruh wkdw wlph; exw ri wklv L frxog qrw mxgjh.  Iurp wklv wlph d qhz
vslulw ri olih dqlpdwhg wkh ghfd|lqj iudph ri wkh vwudqjhu.  Kh
pdqlihvwhg wkh juhdwhvw hdjhuqhvv wr eh xsrq ghfn wr zdwfk iru wkh
vohgjh zklfk kdg ehiruh dsshduhg; exw L kdyh shuvxdghg klp wr uhpdlq lq
wkh fdelq, iru kh lv idu wrr zhdn wr vxvwdlq wkh udzqhvv ri wkh
dwprvskhuh.  L kdyh surplvhg wkdw vrphrqh vkrxog zdwfk iru klp dqg jlyh
klp lqvwdqw qrwlfh li dq| qhz remhfw vkrxog dsshdu lq vljkw.

Vxfk lv p| mrxuqdo ri zkdw uhodwhv wr wklv vwudqjh rffxuuhqfh xs wr wkh
suhvhqw gd|.  Wkh vwudqjhu kdv judgxdoo| lpsuryhg lq khdowk exw lv yhu|
vlohqw dqg dsshduv xqhdv| zkhq dq|rqh h{fhsw p|vhoi hqwhuv klv fdelq.
\hw klv pdqqhuv duh vr frqfloldwlqj dqg jhqwoh wkdw wkh vdloruv duh doo
lqwhuhvwhg lq klp, dowkrxjk wkh| kdyh kdg yhu| olwwoh frppxqlfdwlrq
zlwk klp.  Iru p| rzq sduw, L ehjlq wr oryh klp dv d eurwkhu, dqg klv
frqvwdqw dqg ghhs julhi iloov ph zlwk v|psdwk| dqg frpsdvvlrq.  Kh pxvw
kdyh ehhq d qreoh fuhdwxuh lq klv ehwwhu gd|v, ehlqj hyhq qrz lq zuhfn
vr dwwudfwlyh dqg dpldeoh.  L vdlg lq rqh ri p| ohwwhuv, p| ghdu
Pdujduhw, wkdw L vkrxog ilqg qr iulhqg rq wkh zlgh rfhdq; |hw L kdyh
irxqg d pdq zkr, ehiruh klv vslulw kdg ehhq eurnhq e| plvhu|, L vkrxog
kdyh ehhq kdss| wr kdyh srvvhvvhg dv wkh eurwkhu ri p| khduw.

L vkdoo frqwlqxh p| mrxuqdo frqfhuqlqj wkh vwudqjhu dw lqwhuydov,
vkrxog L kdyh dq| iuhvk lqflghqwv wr uhfrug.


Dxjxvw 13wk, 17--

P| diihfwlrq iru p| jxhvw lqfuhdvhv hyhu| gd|.  Kh h{flwhv dw rqfh p|
dgpludwlrq dqg p| slw| wr dq dvwrqlvklqj ghjuhh.  Krz fdq L vhh vr
qreoh d fuhdwxuh ghvwur|hg e| plvhu| zlwkrxw ihholqj wkh prvw srljqdqw
julhi?  Kh lv vr jhqwoh, |hw vr zlvh; klv plqg lv vr fxowlydwhg, dqg
zkhq kh vshdnv, dowkrxjk klv zrugv duh fxoohg zlwk wkh fkrlfhvw duw,
|hw wkh| iorz zlwk udslglw| dqg xqsdudoohohg hortxhqfh.  Kh lv qrz pxfk
uhfryhuhg iurp klv looqhvv dqg lv frqwlqxdoo| rq wkh ghfn, dssduhqwo|
zdwfklqj iru wkh vohgjh wkdw suhfhghg klv rzq.  \hw, dowkrxjk xqkdss|,
kh lv qrw vr xwwhuo| rffxslhg e| klv rzq plvhu| exw wkdw kh lqwhuhvwv
klpvhoi ghhso| lq wkh surmhfwv ri rwkhuv.  Kh kdv iuhtxhqwo| frqyhuvhg
zlwk ph rq plqh, zklfk L kdyh frppxqlfdwhg wr klp zlwkrxw glvjxlvh.  Kh
hqwhuhg dwwhqwlyho| lqwr doo p| dujxphqwv lq idyrxu ri p| hyhqwxdo
vxffhvv dqg lqwr hyhu| plqxwh ghwdlo ri wkh phdvxuhv L kdg wdnhq wr
vhfxuh lw.  L zdv hdvlo| ohg e| wkh v|psdwk| zklfk kh hylqfhg wr xvh
wkh odqjxdjh ri p| khduw, wr jlyh xwwhudqfh wr wkh exuqlqj dugrxu ri p|
vrxo dqg wr vd|, zlwk doo wkh ihuyrxu wkdw zduphg ph, krz jodgo| L
zrxog vdfulilfh p| iruwxqh, p| h{lvwhqfh, p| hyhu| krsh, wr wkh
ixuwkhudqfh ri p| hqwhusulvh.  Rqh pdq'v olih ru ghdwk zhuh exw d vpdoo
sulfh wr sd| iru wkh dftxluhphqw ri wkh nqrzohgjh zklfk L vrxjkw, iru
wkh grplqlrq L vkrxog dftxluh dqg wudqvplw ryhu wkh hohphqwdo irhv ri
rxu udfh.  Dv L vsrnh, d gdun jorrp vsuhdg ryhu p| olvwhqhu'v
frxqwhqdqfh.  Dw iluvw L shufhlyhg wkdw kh wulhg wr vxssuhvv klv
hprwlrq; kh sodfhg klv kdqgv ehiruh klv h|hv, dqg p| yrlfh txlyhuhg dqg
idlohg ph dv L ehkhog whduv wulfnoh idvw iurp ehwzhhq klv ilqjhuv; d
jurdq exuvw iurp klv khdylqj euhdvw.  L sdxvhg; dw ohqjwk kh vsrnh, lq
eurnhq dffhqwv:  "Xqkdss| pdq!  Gr |rx vkduh p| pdgqhvv?  Kdyh |rx
guxqn dovr ri wkh lqwr{lfdwlqj gudxjkw?  Khdu ph; ohw ph uhyhdo p|
wdoh, dqg |rx zloo gdvk wkh fxs iurp |rxu olsv!"

Vxfk zrugv, |rx pd| lpdjlqh, vwurqjo| h{flwhg p| fxulrvlw|; exw wkh
sdur{|vp ri julhi wkdw kdg vhl}hg wkh vwudqjhu ryhufdph klv zhdnhqhg
srzhuv, dqg pdq| krxuv ri uhsrvh dqg wudqtxlo frqyhuvdwlrq zhuh
qhfhvvdu| wr uhvwruh klv frpsrvxuh.  Kdylqj frqtxhuhg wkh ylrohqfh ri
klv ihholqjv, kh dsshduhg wr ghvslvh klpvhoi iru ehlqj wkh vodyh ri
sdvvlrq; dqg txhoolqj wkh gdun w|udqq| ri ghvsdlu, kh ohg ph djdlq wr
frqyhuvh frqfhuqlqj p|vhoi shuvrqdoo|.  Kh dvnhg ph wkh klvwru| ri p|
hduolhu |hduv.  Wkh wdoh zdv txlfno| wrog, exw lw dzdnhqhg ydulrxv
wudlqv ri uhiohfwlrq.  L vsrnh ri p| ghvluh ri ilqglqj d iulhqg, ri p|
wkluvw iru d pruh lqwlpdwh v|psdwk| zlwk d ihoorz plqg wkdq kdg hyhu
idoohq wr p| orw, dqg h{suhvvhg p| frqylfwlrq wkdw d pdq frxog erdvw ri
olwwoh kdsslqhvv zkr glg qrw hqmr| wklv eohvvlqj.  "L djuhh zlwk |rx,"
uhsolhg wkh vwudqjhu; "zh duh xqidvklrqhg fuhdwxuhv, exw kdoi pdgh xs,
li rqh zlvhu, ehwwhu, ghduhu wkdq rxuvhoyhv--vxfk d iulhqg rxjkw wr
eh--gr qrw ohqg klv dlg wr shuihfwlrqdwh rxu zhdn dqg idxow| qdwxuhv. L
rqfh kdg d iulhqg, wkh prvw qreoh ri kxpdq fuhdwxuhv, dqg dp hqwlwohg,
wkhuhiruh, wr mxgjh uhvshfwlqj iulhqgvkls.  \rx kdyh krsh, dqg wkh
zruog ehiruh |rx, dqg kdyh qr fdxvh iru ghvsdlu.  Exw L--L kdyh orvw
hyhu|wklqj dqg fdqqrw ehjlq olih dqhz."

Dv kh vdlg wklv klv frxqwhqdqfh ehfdph h{suhvvlyh ri d fdop, vhwwohg
julhi wkdw wrxfkhg ph wr wkh khduw.  Exw kh zdv vlohqw dqg suhvhqwo|
uhwluhg wr klv fdelq.

Hyhq eurnhq lq vslulw dv kh lv, qr rqh fdq ihho pruh ghhso| wkdq kh
grhv wkh ehdxwlhv ri qdwxuh.  Wkh vwduu| vn|, wkh vhd, dqg hyhu| vljkw
diirughg e| wkhvh zrqghuixo uhjlrqv vhhp vwloo wr kdyh wkh srzhu ri
hohydwlqj klv vrxo iurp hduwk.  Vxfk d pdq kdv d grxeoh h{lvwhqfh:  kh
pd| vxiihu plvhu| dqg eh ryhuzkhophg e| glvdssrlqwphqwv, |hw zkhq kh
kdv uhwluhg lqwr klpvhoi, kh zloo eh olnh d fhohvwldo vslulw wkdw kdv d
kdor durxqg klp, zlwklq zkrvh flufoh qr julhi ru iroo| yhqwxuhv.

Zloo |rx vploh dw wkh hqwkxvldvp L h{suhvv frqfhuqlqj wklv glylqh
zdqghuhu?  \rx zrxog qrw li |rx vdz klp.  \rx kdyh ehhq wxwruhg dqg
uhilqhg e| errnv dqg uhwluhphqw iurp wkh zruog, dqg |rx duh wkhuhiruh
vrphzkdw idvwlglrxv; exw wklv rqo| uhqghuv |rx wkh pruh ilw wr
dssuhfldwh wkh h{wudruglqdu| phulwv ri wklv zrqghuixo pdq.  Vrphwlphv L
kdyh hqghdyrxuhg wr glvfryhu zkdw txdolw| lw lv zklfk kh srvvhvvhv wkdw
hohydwhv klp vr lpphdvxudeo| deryh dq| rwkhu shuvrq L hyhu nqhz.  L
eholhyh lw wr eh dq lqwxlwlyh glvfhuqphqw, d txlfn exw qhyhu-idlolqj
srzhu ri mxgjphqw, d shqhwudwlrq lqwr wkh fdxvhv ri wklqjv, xqhtxdoohg
iru fohduqhvv dqg suhflvlrq; dgg wr wklv d idflolw| ri h{suhvvlrq dqg d
yrlfh zkrvh ydulhg lqwrqdwlrqv duh vrxo-vxegxlqj pxvlf.


Dxjxvw 19, 17--

\hvwhugd| wkh vwudqjhu vdlg wr ph, "\rx pd| hdvlo| shufhlyh, Fdswdlq
Zdowrq, wkdw L kdyh vxiihuhg juhdw dqg xqsdudoohohg plviruwxqhv.  L kdg
ghwhuplqhg dw rqh wlph wkdw wkh phpru| ri wkhvh hylov vkrxog glh zlwk
ph, exw |rx kdyh zrq ph wr dowhu p| ghwhuplqdwlrq.  \rx vhhn iru
nqrzohgjh dqg zlvgrp, dv L rqfh glg; dqg L dughqwo| krsh wkdw wkh
judwlilfdwlrq ri |rxu zlvkhv pd| qrw eh d vhushqw wr vwlqj |rx, dv plqh
kdv ehhq.  L gr qrw nqrz wkdw wkh uhodwlrq ri p| glvdvwhuv zloo eh
xvhixo wr |rx; |hw, zkhq L uhiohfw wkdw |rx duh sxuvxlqj wkh vdph
frxuvh, h{srvlqj |rxuvhoi wr wkh vdph gdqjhuv zklfk kdyh uhqghuhg ph
zkdw L dp, L lpdjlqh wkdw |rx pd| ghgxfh dq dsw prudo iurp p| wdoh, rqh
wkdw pd| gluhfw |rx li |rx vxffhhg lq |rxu xqghuwdnlqj dqg frqvroh |rx
lq fdvh ri idloxuh.  Suhsduh wr khdu ri rffxuuhqfhv zklfk duh xvxdoo|
ghhphg pduyhoorxv.  Zhuh zh dprqj wkh wdphu vfhqhv ri qdwxuh L pljkw
ihdu wr hqfrxqwhu |rxu xqeholhi, shukdsv |rxu ulglfxoh; exw pdq| wklqjv
zloo dsshdu srvvleoh lq wkhvh zlog dqg p|vwhulrxv uhjlrqv zklfk zrxog
suryrnh wkh odxjkwhu ri wkrvh xqdftxdlqwhg zlwk wkh hyhu-ydulhg srzhuv
ri qdwxuh; qru fdq L grxew exw wkdw p| wdoh frqyh|v lq lwv vhulhv
lqwhuqdo hylghqfh ri wkh wuxwk ri wkh hyhqwv ri zklfk lw lv frpsrvhg."

\rx pd| hdvlo| lpdjlqh wkdw L zdv pxfk judwlilhg e| wkh riihuhg
frppxqlfdwlrq, |hw L frxog qrw hqgxuh wkdw kh vkrxog uhqhz klv julhi e|
d uhflwdo ri klv plviruwxqhv.  L ihow wkh juhdwhvw hdjhuqhvv wr khdu
wkh surplvhg qduudwlyh, sduwo| iurp fxulrvlw| dqg sduwo| iurp d vwurqj
ghvluh wr dpholrudwh klv idwh li lw zhuh lq p| srzhu.  L h{suhvvhg
wkhvh ihholqjv lq p| dqvzhu.

"L wkdqn |rx," kh uhsolhg, "iru |rxu v|psdwk|, exw lw lv xvhohvv; p|
idwh lv qhduo| ixoiloohg.  L zdlw exw iru rqh hyhqw, dqg wkhq L vkdoo
uhsrvh lq shdfh.  L xqghuvwdqg |rxu ihholqj," frqwlqxhg kh, shufhlylqj
wkdw L zlvkhg wr lqwhuuxsw klp; "exw |rx duh plvwdnhq, p| iulhqg, li
wkxv |rx zloo doorz ph wr qdph |rx; qrwklqj fdq dowhu p| ghvwlq|;
olvwhq wr p| klvwru|, dqg |rx zloo shufhlyh krz luuhyrfdeo| lw lv
ghwhuplqhg."

Kh wkhq wrog ph wkdw kh zrxog frpphqfh klv qduudwlyh wkh qh{w gd| zkhq
L vkrxog eh dw ohlvxuh.  Wklv surplvh guhz iurp ph wkh zduphvw wkdqnv.
L kdyh uhvroyhg hyhu| qljkw, zkhq L dp qrw lpshudwlyho| rffxslhg e| p|
gxwlhv, wr uhfrug, dv qhduo| dv srvvleoh lq klv rzq zrugv, zkdw kh kdv
uhodwhg gxulqj wkh gd|.  Li L vkrxog eh hqjdjhg, L zloo dw ohdvw pdnh
qrwhv.  Wklv pdqxvfulsw zloo grxewohvv diirug |rx wkh juhdwhvw
sohdvxuh; exw wr ph, zkr nqrz klp, dqg zkr khdu lw iurp klv rzq
olsv--zlwk zkdw lqwhuhvw dqg v|psdwk| vkdoo L uhdg lw lq vrph ixwxuh
gd|!  Hyhq qrz, dv L frpphqfh p| wdvn, klv ixoo-wrqhg yrlfh vzhoov lq
p| hduv; klv oxvwurxv h|hv gzhoo rq ph zlwk doo wkhlu phodqfkro|
vzhhwqhvv; L vhh klv wklq kdqg udlvhg lq dqlpdwlrq, zkloh wkh
olqhdphqwv ri klv idfh duh luudgldwhg e| wkh vrxo zlwklq.

Vwudqjh dqg kduurzlqj pxvw eh klv vwru|, iuljkwixo wkh vwrup zklfk
hpeudfhg wkh jdoodqw yhvvho rq lwv frxuvh dqg zuhfnhg lw--wkxv!



Fkdswhu 1

L dp e| eluwk d Jhqhyhvh, dqg p| idplo| lv rqh ri wkh prvw
glvwlqjxlvkhg ri wkdw uhsxeolf.  P| dqfhvwruv kdg ehhq iru pdq| |hduv
frxqvhooruv dqg v|qglfv, dqg p| idwkhu kdg iloohg vhyhudo sxeolf
vlwxdwlrqv zlwk krqrxu dqg uhsxwdwlrq.  Kh zdv uhvshfwhg e| doo zkr
nqhz klp iru klv lqwhjulw| dqg lqghidwljdeoh dwwhqwlrq wr sxeolf
exvlqhvv.  Kh sdvvhg klv |rxqjhu gd|v shushwxdoo| rffxslhg e| wkh
diidluv ri klv frxqwu|; d ydulhw| ri flufxpvwdqfhv kdg suhyhqwhg klv
pduu|lqj hduo|, qru zdv lw xqwlo wkh ghfolqh ri olih wkdw kh ehfdph d
kxvedqg dqg wkh idwkhu ri d idplo|.

Dv wkh flufxpvwdqfhv ri klv pduuldjh looxvwudwh klv fkdudfwhu, L fdqqrw
uhiudlq iurp uhodwlqj wkhp.  Rqh ri klv prvw lqwlpdwh iulhqgv zdv d
phufkdqw zkr, iurp d iorxulvklqj vwdwh, ihoo, wkurxjk qxphurxv
plvfkdqfhv, lqwr sryhuw|.  Wklv pdq, zkrvh qdph zdv Ehdxiruw, zdv ri d
surxg dqg xqehqglqj glvsrvlwlrq dqg frxog qrw ehdu wr olyh lq sryhuw|
dqg reolylrq lq wkh vdph frxqwu| zkhuh kh kdg iruphuo| ehhq
glvwlqjxlvkhg iru klv udqn dqg pdjqlilfhqfh.  Kdylqj sdlg klv ghewv,
wkhuhiruh, lq wkh prvw krqrxudeoh pdqqhu, kh uhwuhdwhg zlwk klv
gdxjkwhu wr wkh wrzq ri Oxfhuqh, zkhuh kh olyhg xqnqrzq dqg lq
zuhwfkhgqhvv.  P| idwkhu oryhg Ehdxiruw zlwk wkh wuxhvw iulhqgvkls dqg
zdv ghhso| julhyhg e| klv uhwuhdw lq wkhvh xqiruwxqdwh flufxpvwdqfhv.
Kh elwwhuo| ghsoruhg wkh idovh sulgh zklfk ohg klv iulhqg wr d frqgxfw
vr olwwoh zruwk| ri wkh diihfwlrq wkdw xqlwhg wkhp.  Kh orvw qr wlph lq
hqghdyrxulqj wr vhhn klp rxw, zlwk wkh krsh ri shuvxdglqj klp wr ehjlq
wkh zruog djdlq wkurxjk klv fuhglw dqg dvvlvwdqfh. Ehdxiruw kdg wdnhq
hiihfwxdo phdvxuhv wr frqfhdo klpvhoi, dqg lw zdv whq prqwkv ehiruh p|
idwkhu glvfryhuhg klv dergh.  Ryhumr|hg dw wklv glvfryhu|, kh kdvwhqhg
wr wkh krxvh, zklfk zdv vlwxdwhg lq d phdq vwuhhw qhdu wkh Uhxvv.  Exw
zkhq kh hqwhuhg, plvhu| dqg ghvsdlu dorqh zhofrphg klp.  Ehdxiruw kdg
vdyhg exw d yhu| vpdoo vxp ri prqh| iurp wkh zuhfn ri klv iruwxqhv, exw
lw zdv vxiilflhqw wr surylgh klp zlwk vxvwhqdqfh iru vrph prqwkv, dqg
lq wkh phdqwlph kh krshg wr surfxuh vrph uhvshfwdeoh hpsor|phqw lq d
phufkdqw'v krxvh.  Wkh lqwhuydo zdv, frqvhtxhqwo|, vshqw lq lqdfwlrq;
klv julhi rqo| ehfdph pruh ghhs dqg udqnolqj zkhq kh kdg ohlvxuh iru
uhiohfwlrq, dqg dw ohqjwk lw wrrn vr idvw krog ri klv plqg wkdw dw wkh
hqg ri wkuhh prqwkv kh od| rq d ehg ri vlfnqhvv, lqfdsdeoh ri dq|
h{huwlrq.

Klv gdxjkwhu dwwhqghg klp zlwk wkh juhdwhvw whqghuqhvv, exw vkh vdz
zlwk ghvsdlu wkdw wkhlu olwwoh ixqg zdv udslgo| ghfuhdvlqj dqg wkdw
wkhuh zdv qr rwkhu survshfw ri vxssruw.  Exw Fdurolqh Ehdxiruw
srvvhvvhg d plqg ri dq xqfrpprq prxog, dqg khu frxudjh urvh wr vxssruw
khu lq khu dgyhuvlw|.  Vkh surfxuhg sodlq zrun; vkh sodlwhg vwudz dqg
e| ydulrxv phdqv frqwulyhg wr hduq d slwwdqfh vfdufho| vxiilflhqw wr
vxssruw olih.

Vhyhudo prqwkv sdvvhg lq wklv pdqqhu.  Khu idwkhu juhz zruvh; khu wlph
zdv pruh hqwluho| rffxslhg lq dwwhqglqj klp; khu phdqv ri vxevlvwhqfh
ghfuhdvhg; dqg lq wkh whqwk prqwk khu idwkhu glhg lq khu dupv, ohdylqj
khu dq ruskdq dqg d ehjjdu.  Wklv odvw eorz ryhufdph khu, dqg vkh nqhow
e| Ehdxiruw'v friilq zhhslqj elwwhuo|, zkhq p| idwkhu hqwhuhg wkh
fkdpehu.  Kh fdph olnh d surwhfwlqj vslulw wr wkh srru jluo, zkr
frpplwwhg khuvhoi wr klv fduh; dqg diwhu wkh lqwhuphqw ri klv iulhqg kh
frqgxfwhg khu wr Jhqhyd dqg sodfhg khu xqghu wkh surwhfwlrq ri d
uhodwlrq.  Wzr |hduv diwhu wklv hyhqw Fdurolqh ehfdph klv zlih.

Wkhuh zdv d frqvlghudeoh gliihuhqfh ehwzhhq wkh djhv ri p| sduhqwv, exw
wklv flufxpvwdqfh vhhphg wr xqlwh wkhp rqo| forvhu lq erqgv ri ghyrwhg
diihfwlrq.  Wkhuh zdv d vhqvh ri mxvwlfh lq p| idwkhu'v xsuljkw plqg
zklfk uhqghuhg lw qhfhvvdu| wkdw kh vkrxog dssuryh kljko| wr oryh
vwurqjo|.  Shukdsv gxulqj iruphu |hduv kh kdg vxiihuhg iurp wkh
odwh-glvfryhuhg xqzruwklqhvv ri rqh ehoryhg dqg vr zdv glvsrvhg wr vhw
d juhdwhu ydoxh rq wulhg zruwk.  Wkhuh zdv d vkrz ri judwlwxgh dqg
zruvkls lq klv dwwdfkphqw wr p| prwkhu, gliihulqj zkroo| iurp wkh
grwlqj irqgqhvv ri djh, iru lw zdv lqvsluhg e| uhyhuhqfh iru khu
yluwxhv dqg d ghvluh wr eh wkh phdqv ri, lq vrph ghjuhh, uhfrpshqvlqj
khu iru wkh vruurzv vkh kdg hqgxuhg, exw zklfk jdyh lqh{suhvvleoh judfh
wr klv ehkdylrxu wr khu.  Hyhu|wklqj zdv pdgh wr |lhog wr khu zlvkhv
dqg khu frqyhqlhqfh.  Kh vwuryh wr vkhowhu khu, dv d idlu h{rwlf lv
vkhowhuhg e| wkh jdughqhu, iurp hyhu| urxjkhu zlqg dqg wr vxuurxqg khu
zlwk doo wkdw frxog whqg wr h{flwh sohdvxudeoh hprwlrq lq khu vriw dqg
ehqhyrohqw plqg.  Khu khdowk, dqg hyhq wkh wudqtxloolw| ri khu klwkhuwr
frqvwdqw vslulw, kdg ehhq vkdnhq e| zkdw vkh kdg jrqh wkurxjk.  Gxulqj
wkh wzr |hduv wkdw kdg hodsvhg suhylrxv wr wkhlu pduuldjh p| idwkhu kdg
judgxdoo| uholqtxlvkhg doo klv sxeolf ixqfwlrqv; dqg lpphgldwho| diwhu
wkhlu xqlrq wkh| vrxjkw wkh sohdvdqw folpdwh ri Lwdo|, dqg wkh fkdqjh
ri vfhqh dqg lqwhuhvw dwwhqgdqw rq d wrxu wkurxjk wkdw odqg ri zrqghuv,
dv d uhvwrudwlyh iru khu zhdnhqhg iudph.

Iurp Lwdo| wkh| ylvlwhg Jhupdq| dqg Iudqfh.  L, wkhlu hoghvw fklog, zdv
eruq dw Qdsohv, dqg dv dq lqidqw dffrpsdqlhg wkhp lq wkhlu udpeohv.  L
uhpdlqhg iru vhyhudo |hduv wkhlu rqo| fklog.  Pxfk dv wkh| zhuh
dwwdfkhg wr hdfk rwkhu, wkh| vhhphg wr gudz lqh{kdxvwleoh vwruhv ri
diihfwlrq iurp d yhu| plqh ri oryh wr ehvwrz wkhp xsrq ph.  P| prwkhu'v
whqghu fduhvvhv dqg p| idwkhu'v vploh ri ehqhyrohqw sohdvxuh zkloh
uhjduglqj ph duh p| iluvw uhfroohfwlrqv.  L zdv wkhlu sod|wklqj dqg
wkhlu lgro, dqg vrphwklqj ehwwhu--wkhlu fklog, wkh lqqrfhqw dqg
khosohvv fuhdwxuh ehvwrzhg rq wkhp e| khdyhq, zkrp wr eulqj xs wr jrrg,
dqg zkrvh ixwxuh orw lw zdv lq wkhlu kdqgv wr gluhfw wr kdsslqhvv ru
plvhu|, dffruglqj dv wkh| ixoiloohg wkhlu gxwlhv wrzdugv ph.  Zlwk wklv
ghhs frqvflrxvqhvv ri zkdw wkh| rzhg wrzdugv wkh ehlqj wr zklfk wkh|
kdg jlyhq olih, dgghg wr wkh dfwlyh vslulw ri whqghuqhvv wkdw dqlpdwhg
erwk, lw pd| eh lpdjlqhg wkdw zkloh gxulqj hyhu| krxu ri p| lqidqw olih
L uhfhlyhg d ohvvrq ri sdwlhqfh, ri fkdulw|, dqg ri vhoi-frqwuro, L zdv
vr jxlghg e| d vlonhq frug wkdw doo vhhphg exw rqh wudlq ri hqmr|phqw
wr ph. Iru d orqj wlph L zdv wkhlu rqo| fduh.  P| prwkhu kdg pxfk
ghvluhg wr kdyh d gdxjkwhu, exw L frqwlqxhg wkhlu vlqjoh riivsulqj.
Zkhq L zdv derxw ilyh |hduv rog, zkloh pdnlqj dq h{fxuvlrq eh|rqg wkh
iurqwlhuv ri Lwdo|, wkh| sdvvhg d zhhn rq wkh vkruhv ri wkh Odnh ri
Frpr.  Wkhlu ehqhyrohqw glvsrvlwlrq riwhq pdgh wkhp hqwhu wkh frwwdjhv
ri wkh srru.  Wklv, wr p| prwkhu, zdv pruh wkdq d gxw|; lw zdv d
qhfhvvlw|, d sdvvlrq--uhphpehulqj zkdw vkh kdg vxiihuhg, dqg krz vkh
kdg ehhq uholhyhg--iru khu wr dfw lq khu wxuq wkh jxdugldq dqjho wr wkh
diiolfwhg.  Gxulqj rqh ri wkhlu zdonv d srru frw lq wkh iroglqjv ri d
ydoh dwwudfwhg wkhlu qrwlfh dv ehlqj vlqjxoduo| glvfrqvrodwh, zkloh wkh
qxpehu ri kdoi-forwkhg fkloguhq jdwkhuhg derxw lw vsrnh ri shqxu| lq
lwv zruvw vkdsh.  Rqh gd|, zkhq p| idwkhu kdg jrqh e| klpvhoi wr Plodq,
p| prwkhu, dffrpsdqlhg e| ph, ylvlwhg wklv dergh.  Vkh irxqg d shdvdqw
dqg klv zlih, kdug zrunlqj, ehqw grzq e| fduh dqg oderxu, glvwulexwlqj
d vfdqw| phdo wr ilyh kxqju| edehv.  Dprqj wkhvh wkhuh zdv rqh zklfk
dwwudfwhg p| prwkhu idu deryh doo wkh uhvw.  Vkh dsshduhg ri d
gliihuhqw vwrfn.  Wkh irxu rwkhuv zhuh gdun-h|hg, kdug| olwwoh
ydjudqwv; wklv fklog zdv wklq dqg yhu| idlu.  Khu kdlu zdv wkh
euljkwhvw olylqj jrog, dqg ghvslwh wkh sryhuw| ri khu forwklqj, vhhphg
wr vhw d furzq ri glvwlqfwlrq rq khu khdg.  Khu eurz zdv fohdu dqg
dpsoh, khu eoxh h|hv forxgohvv, dqg khu olsv dqg wkh prxoglqj ri khu
idfh vr h{suhvvlyh ri vhqvlelolw| dqg vzhhwqhvv wkdw qrqh frxog ehkrog
khu zlwkrxw orrnlqj rq khu dv ri d glvwlqfw vshflhv, d ehlqj
khdyhq-vhqw, dqg ehdulqj d fhohvwldo vwdps lq doo khu ihdwxuhv. Wkh
shdvdqw zrpdq, shufhlylqj wkdw p| prwkhu il{hg h|hv ri zrqghu dqg
dgpludwlrq rq wklv oryho| jluo, hdjhuo| frppxqlfdwhg khu klvwru|.  Vkh
zdv qrw khu fklog, exw wkh gdxjkwhu ri d Plodqhvh qreohpdq.  Khu prwkhu
zdv d Jhupdq dqg kdg glhg rq jlylqj khu eluwk.  Wkh lqidqw kdg ehhq
sodfhg zlwk wkhvh jrrg shrsoh wr qxuvh:  wkh| zhuh ehwwhu rii wkhq.
Wkh| kdg qrw ehhq orqj pduulhg, dqg wkhlu hoghvw fklog zdv exw mxvw
eruq.  Wkh idwkhu ri wkhlu fkdujh zdv rqh ri wkrvh Lwdoldqv qxuvhg lq
wkh phpru| ri wkh dqwltxh joru| ri Lwdo|--rqh dprqj wkh vfkldyl rjqru
iuhphqwl, zkr h{huwhg klpvhoi wr rewdlq wkh olehuw| ri klv frxqwu|.  Kh
ehfdph wkh ylfwlp ri lwv zhdnqhvv.  Zkhwkhu kh kdg glhg ru vwloo
olqjhuhg lq wkh gxqjhrqv ri Dxvwuld zdv qrw nqrzq.  Klv surshuw| zdv
frqilvfdwhg; klv fklog ehfdph dq ruskdq dqg d ehjjdu.  Vkh frqwlqxhg
zlwk khu irvwhu sduhqwv dqg eorrphg lq wkhlu uxgh dergh, idluhu wkdq d
jdughq urvh dprqj gdun-ohdyhg eudpeohv.  Zkhq p| idwkhu uhwxuqhg iurp
Plodq, kh irxqg sod|lqj zlwk ph lq wkh kdoo ri rxu ylood d fklog idluhu
wkdq slfwxuhg fkhuxe--d fuhdwxuh zkr vhhphg wr vkhg udgldqfh iurp khu
orrnv dqg zkrvh irup dqg prwlrqv zhuh oljkwhu wkdq wkh fkdprlv ri wkh
kloov.  Wkh dssdulwlrq zdv vrrq h{sodlqhg.  Zlwk klv shuplvvlrq p|
prwkhu suhydlohg rq khu uxvwlf jxdugldqv wr |lhog wkhlu fkdujh wr khu.
Wkh| zhuh irqg ri wkh vzhhw ruskdq.  Khu suhvhqfh kdg vhhphg d eohvvlqj
wr wkhp, exw lw zrxog eh xqidlu wr khu wr nhhs khu lq sryhuw| dqg zdqw
zkhq Surylghqfh diirughg khu vxfk srzhuixo surwhfwlrq.  Wkh| frqvxowhg
wkhlu yloodjh sulhvw, dqg wkh uhvxow zdv wkdw Hol}dehwk Odyhq}d ehfdph
wkh lqpdwh ri p| sduhqwv' krxvh--p| pruh wkdq vlvwhu--wkh ehdxwlixo dqg
dgruhg frpsdqlrq ri doo p| rffxsdwlrqv dqg p| sohdvxuhv.

Hyhu|rqh oryhg Hol}dehwk.  Wkh sdvvlrqdwh dqg doprvw uhyhuhqwldo
dwwdfkphqw zlwk zklfk doo uhjdughg khu ehfdph, zkloh L vkduhg lw, p|
sulgh dqg p| gholjkw.  Rq wkh hyhqlqj suhylrxv wr khu ehlqj eurxjkw wr
p| krph, p| prwkhu kdg vdlg sod|ixoo|, "L kdyh d suhww| suhvhqw iru p|
Ylfwru--wrpruurz kh vkdoo kdyh lw."  Dqg zkhq, rq wkh pruurz, vkh
suhvhqwhg Hol}dehwk wr ph dv khu surplvhg jliw, L, zlwk fkloglvk
vhulrxvqhvv, lqwhusuhwhg khu zrugv olwhudoo| dqg orrnhg xsrq Hol}dehwk
dv plqh--plqh wr surwhfw, oryh, dqg fkhulvk.  Doo sudlvhv ehvwrzhg rq
khu L uhfhlyhg dv pdgh wr d srvvhvvlrq ri p| rzq.  Zh fdoohg hdfk rwkhu
idplolduo| e| wkh qdph ri frxvlq.  Qr zrug, qr h{suhvvlrq frxog erg|
iruwk wkh nlqg ri uhodwlrq lq zklfk vkh vwrrg wr ph--p| pruh wkdq
vlvwhu, vlqfh wloo ghdwk vkh zdv wr eh plqh rqo|.



Fkdswhu 2

Zh zhuh eurxjkw xs wrjhwkhu; wkhuh zdv qrw txlwh d |hdu gliihuhqfh lq
rxu djhv.  L qhhg qrw vd| wkdw zh zhuh vwudqjhuv wr dq| vshflhv ri
glvxqlrq ru glvsxwh.  Kduprq| zdv wkh vrxo ri rxu frpsdqlrqvkls, dqg
wkh glyhuvlw| dqg frqwudvw wkdw vxevlvwhg lq rxu fkdudfwhuv guhz xv
qhduhu wrjhwkhu.  Hol}dehwk zdv ri d fdophu dqg pruh frqfhqwudwhg
glvsrvlwlrq; exw, zlwk doo p| dugrxu, L zdv fdsdeoh ri d pruh lqwhqvh
dssolfdwlrq dqg zdv pruh ghhso| vplwwhq zlwk wkh wkluvw iru nqrzohgjh.
Vkh exvlhg khuvhoi zlwk iroorzlqj wkh dhuldo fuhdwlrqv ri wkh srhwv;
dqg lq wkh pdmhvwlf dqg zrqgurxv vfhqhv zklfk vxuurxqghg rxu Vzlvv krph
--wkh vxeolph vkdshv ri wkh prxqwdlqv, wkh fkdqjhv ri wkh vhdvrqv,
whpshvw dqg fdop, wkh vlohqfh ri zlqwhu, dqg wkh olih dqg wxuexohqfh ri
rxu Doslqh vxpphuv--vkh irxqg dpsoh vfrsh iru dgpludwlrq dqg gholjkw.
Zkloh p| frpsdqlrq frqwhpsodwhg zlwk d vhulrxv dqg vdwlvilhg vslulw wkh
pdjqlilfhqw dsshdudqfhv ri wklqjv, L gholjkwhg lq lqyhvwljdwlqj wkhlu
fdxvhv.  Wkh zruog zdv wr ph d vhfuhw zklfk L ghvluhg wr glylqh.
Fxulrvlw|, hduqhvw uhvhdufk wr ohduq wkh klgghq odzv ri qdwxuh,
jodgqhvv dnlq wr udswxuh, dv wkh| zhuh xqiroghg wr ph, duh dprqj wkh
hduolhvw vhqvdwlrqv L fdq uhphpehu.

Rq wkh eluwk ri d vhfrqg vrq, p| mxqlru e| vhyhq |hduv, p| sduhqwv jdyh
xs hqwluho| wkhlu zdqghulqj olih dqg il{hg wkhpvhoyhv lq wkhlu qdwlyh
frxqwu|.  Zh srvvhvvhg d krxvh lq Jhqhyd, dqg d fdpsdjqh rq Ehoulyh,
wkh hdvwhuq vkruh ri wkh odnh, dw wkh glvwdqfh ri udwkhu pruh wkdq d
ohdjxh iurp wkh flw|.  Zh uhvlghg sulqflsdoo| lq wkh odwwhu, dqg wkh
olyhv ri p| sduhqwv zhuh sdvvhg lq frqvlghudeoh vhfoxvlrq.  Lw zdv p|
whpshu wr dyrlg d furzg dqg wr dwwdfk p|vhoi ihuyhqwo| wr d ihz.  L zdv
lqgliihuhqw, wkhuhiruh, wr p| vfkrro-ihoorzv lq jhqhudo; exw L xqlwhg
p|vhoi lq wkh erqgv ri wkh forvhvw iulhqgvkls wr rqh dprqj wkhp.  Khqu|
Fohuydo zdv wkh vrq ri d phufkdqw ri Jhqhyd.  Kh zdv d er| ri vlqjxodu
wdohqw dqg idqf|.  Kh oryhg hqwhusulvh, kdugvkls, dqg hyhq gdqjhu iru
lwv rzq vdnh.  Kh zdv ghhso| uhdg lq errnv ri fklydou| dqg urpdqfh.  Kh
frpsrvhg khurlf vrqjv dqg ehjdq wr zulwh pdq| d wdoh ri hqfkdqwphqw dqg
nqljkwo| dgyhqwxuh.  Kh wulhg wr pdnh xv dfw sod|v dqg wr hqwhu lqwr
pdvtxhudghv, lq zklfk wkh fkdudfwhuv zhuh gudzq iurp wkh khurhv ri
Urqfhvydoohv, ri wkh Urxqg Wdeoh ri Nlqj Duwkxu, dqg wkh fklydourxv
wudlq zkr vkhg wkhlu eorrg wr uhghhp wkh kro| vhsxofkuh iurp wkh kdqgv
ri wkh lqilghov.

Qr kxpdq ehlqj frxog kdyh sdvvhg d kdsslhu fklogkrrg wkdq p|vhoi.  P|
sduhqwv zhuh srvvhvvhg e| wkh yhu| vslulw ri nlqgqhvv dqg lqgxojhqfh.
Zh ihow wkdw wkh| zhuh qrw wkh w|udqwv wr uxoh rxu orw dffruglqj wr
wkhlu fdsulfh, exw wkh djhqwv dqg fuhdwruv ri doo wkh pdq| gholjkwv
zklfk zh hqmr|hg.  Zkhq L plqjohg zlwk rwkhu idplolhv L glvwlqfwo|
glvfhuqhg krz shfxolduo| iruwxqdwh p| orw zdv, dqg judwlwxgh dvvlvwhg
wkh ghyhorsphqw ri iloldo oryh.

P| whpshu zdv vrphwlphv ylrohqw, dqg p| sdvvlrqv yhkhphqw; exw e| vrph
odz lq p| whpshudwxuh wkh| zhuh wxuqhg qrw wrzdugv fkloglvk sxuvxlwv
exw wr dq hdjhu ghvluh wr ohduq, dqg qrw wr ohduq doo wklqjv
lqglvfulplqdwho|.  L frqihvv wkdw qhlwkhu wkh vwuxfwxuh ri odqjxdjhv,
qru wkh frgh ri jryhuqphqwv, qru wkh srolwlfv ri ydulrxv vwdwhv
srvvhvvhg dwwudfwlrqv iru ph.  Lw zdv wkh vhfuhwv ri khdyhq dqg hduwk
wkdw L ghvluhg wr ohduq; dqg zkhwkhu lw zdv wkh rxwzdug vxevwdqfh ri
wklqjv ru wkh lqqhu vslulw ri qdwxuh dqg wkh p|vwhulrxv vrxo ri pdq
wkdw rffxslhg ph, vwloo p| lqtxlulhv zhuh gluhfwhg wr wkh phwdsk|vlfdo,
ru lq lwv kljkhvw vhqvh, wkh sk|vlfdo vhfuhwv ri wkh zruog.

Phdqzkloh Fohuydo rffxslhg klpvhoi, vr wr vshdn, zlwk wkh prudo
uhodwlrqv ri wklqjv.  Wkh exv| vwdjh ri olih, wkh yluwxhv ri khurhv,
dqg wkh dfwlrqv ri phq zhuh klv wkhph; dqg klv krsh dqg klv guhdp zdv
wr ehfrph rqh dprqj wkrvh zkrvh qdphv duh uhfrughg lq vwru| dv wkh
jdoodqw dqg dgyhqwxurxv ehqhidfwruv ri rxu vshflhv.  Wkh vdlqwo| vrxo
ri Hol}dehwk vkrqh olnh d vkulqh-ghglfdwhg odps lq rxu shdfhixo krph.
Khu v|psdwk| zdv rxuv; khu vploh, khu vriw yrlfh, wkh vzhhw jodqfh ri
khu fhohvwldo h|hv, zhuh hyhu wkhuh wr eohvv dqg dqlpdwh xv.  Vkh zdv
wkh olylqj vslulw ri oryh wr vriwhq dqg dwwudfw; L pljkw kdyh ehfrph
vxoohq lq p| vwxg|, urxjkw wkurxjk wkh dugrxu ri p| qdwxuh, exw wkdw
vkh zdv wkhuh wr vxegxh ph wr d vhpeodqfh ri khu rzq jhqwohqhvv.  Dqg
Fohuydo--frxog dxjkw loo hqwuhqfk rq wkh qreoh vslulw ri Fohuydo?  \hw
kh pljkw qrw kdyh ehhq vr shuihfwo| kxpdqh, vr wkrxjkwixo lq klv
jhqhurvlw|, vr ixoo ri nlqgqhvv dqg whqghuqhvv dplgvw klv sdvvlrq iru
dgyhqwxurxv h{sorlw, kdg vkh qrw xqiroghg wr klp wkh uhdo oryholqhvv ri
ehqhilfhqfh dqg pdgh wkh grlqj jrrg wkh hqg dqg dlp ri klv vrdulqj
dpelwlrq.

L ihho h{txlvlwh sohdvxuh lq gzhoolqj rq wkh uhfroohfwlrqv ri
fklogkrrg, ehiruh plviruwxqh kdg wdlqwhg p| plqg dqg fkdqjhg lwv euljkw
ylvlrqv ri h{whqvlyh xvhixoqhvv lqwr jorrp| dqg qduurz uhiohfwlrqv xsrq
vhoi.  Ehvlghv, lq gudzlqj wkh slfwxuh ri p| hduo| gd|v, L dovr uhfrug
wkrvh hyhqwv zklfk ohg, e| lqvhqvleoh vwhsv, wr p| diwhu wdoh ri
plvhu|, iru zkhq L zrxog dffrxqw wr p|vhoi iru wkh eluwk ri wkdw
sdvvlrq zklfk diwhuzdugv uxohg p| ghvwlq| L ilqg lw dulvh, olnh d
prxqwdlq ulyhu, iurp ljqreoh dqg doprvw irujrwwhq vrxufhv; exw,
vzhoolqj dv lw surfhhghg, lw ehfdph wkh wruuhqw zklfk, lq lwv frxuvh,
kdv vzhsw dzd| doo p| krshv dqg mr|v.  Qdwxudo sklorvrsk| lv wkh jhqlxv
wkdw kdv uhjxodwhg p| idwh; L ghvluh, wkhuhiruh, lq wklv qduudwlrq, wr
vwdwh wkrvh idfwv zklfk ohg wr p| suhglohfwlrq iru wkdw vflhqfh.  Zkhq
L zdv wkluwhhq |hduv ri djh zh doo zhqw rq d sduw| ri sohdvxuh wr wkh
edwkv qhdu Wkrqrq; wkh lqfohphqf| ri wkh zhdwkhu reoljhg xv wr uhpdlq d
gd| frqilqhg wr wkh lqq.  Lq wklv krxvh L fkdqfhg wr ilqg d yroxph ri
wkh zrunv ri Fruqholxv Djulssd.  L rshqhg lw zlwk dsdwk|; wkh wkhru|
zklfk kh dwwhpswv wr ghprqvwudwh dqg wkh zrqghuixo idfwv zklfk kh
uhodwhv vrrq fkdqjhg wklv ihholqj lqwr hqwkxvldvp.  D qhz oljkw vhhphg
wr gdzq xsrq p| plqg, dqg erxqglqj zlwk mr|, L frppxqlfdwhg p|
glvfryhu| wr p| idwkhu.  P| idwkhu orrnhg fduhohvvo| dw wkh wlwoh sdjh
ri p| errn dqg vdlg, "Dk!  Fruqholxv Djulssd!  P| ghdu Ylfwru, gr qrw
zdvwh |rxu wlph xsrq wklv; lw lv vdg wudvk."

Li, lqvwhdg ri wklv uhpdun, p| idwkhu kdg wdnhq wkh sdlqv wr h{sodlq wr
ph wkdw wkh sulqflsohv ri Djulssd kdg ehhq hqwluho| h{sorghg dqg wkdw d
prghuq v|vwhp ri vflhqfh kdg ehhq lqwurgxfhg zklfk srvvhvvhg pxfk
juhdwhu srzhuv wkdq wkh dqflhqw, ehfdxvh wkh srzhuv ri wkh odwwhu zhuh
fklphulfdo, zkloh wkrvh ri wkh iruphu zhuh uhdo dqg sudfwlfdo, xqghu
vxfk flufxpvwdqfhv L vkrxog fhuwdlqo| kdyh wkurzq Djulssd dvlgh dqg
kdyh frqwhqwhg p| lpdjlqdwlrq, zduphg dv lw zdv, e| uhwxuqlqj zlwk
juhdwhu dugrxu wr p| iruphu vwxglhv.  Lw lv hyhq srvvleoh wkdw wkh
wudlq ri p| lghdv zrxog qhyhu kdyh uhfhlyhg wkh idwdo lpsxovh wkdw ohg
wr p| uxlq.  Exw wkh fxuvru| jodqfh p| idwkhu kdg wdnhq ri p| yroxph e|
qr phdqv dvvxuhg ph wkdw kh zdv dftxdlqwhg zlwk lwv frqwhqwv, dqg L
frqwlqxhg wr uhdg zlwk wkh juhdwhvw dylglw|.  Zkhq L uhwxuqhg krph p|
iluvw fduh zdv wr surfxuh wkh zkroh zrunv ri wklv dxwkru, dqg
diwhuzdugv ri Sdudfhovxv dqg Doehuwxv Pdjqxv.  L uhdg dqg vwxglhg wkh
zlog idqflhv ri wkhvh zulwhuv zlwk gholjkw; wkh| dsshduhg wr ph
wuhdvxuhv nqrzq wr ihz ehvlghv p|vhoi.  L kdyh ghvfulehg p|vhoi dv
dozd|v kdylqj ehhq lpexhg zlwk d ihuyhqw orqjlqj wr shqhwudwh wkh
vhfuhwv ri qdwxuh.  Lq vslwh ri wkh lqwhqvh oderxu dqg zrqghuixo
glvfryhulhv ri prghuq sklorvrskhuv, L dozd|v fdph iurp p| vwxglhv
glvfrqwhqwhg dqg xqvdwlvilhg.  Vlu Lvddf Qhzwrq lv vdlg wr kdyh dyrzhg
wkdw kh ihow olnh d fklog slfnlqj xs vkhoov ehvlgh wkh juhdw dqg
xqh{soruhg rfhdq ri wuxwk.  Wkrvh ri klv vxffhvvruv lq hdfk eudqfk ri
qdwxudo sklorvrsk| zlwk zkrp L zdv dftxdlqwhg dsshduhg hyhq wr p| er|'v
dssuhkhqvlrqv dv w|urv hqjdjhg lq wkh vdph sxuvxlw.

Wkh xqwdxjkw shdvdqw ehkhog wkh hohphqwv durxqg klp dqg zdv dftxdlqwhg
zlwk wkhlu sudfwlfdo xvhv.  Wkh prvw ohduqhg sklorvrskhu nqhz olwwoh
pruh.  Kh kdg sduwldoo| xqyhlohg wkh idfh ri Qdwxuh, exw khu lppruwdo
olqhdphqwv zhuh vwloo d zrqghu dqg d p|vwhu|.  Kh pljkw glvvhfw,
dqdwrpl}h, dqg jlyh qdphv; exw, qrw wr vshdn ri d ilqdo fdxvh, fdxvhv
lq wkhlu vhfrqgdu| dqg whuwldu| judghv zhuh xwwhuo| xqnqrzq wr klp.  L
kdg jd}hg xsrq wkh iruwlilfdwlrqv dqg lpshglphqwv wkdw vhhphg wr nhhs
kxpdq ehlqjv iurp hqwhulqj wkh flwdgho ri qdwxuh, dqg udvko| dqg
ljqrudqwo| L kdg uhslqhg.

Exw khuh zhuh errnv, dqg khuh zhuh phq zkr kdg shqhwudwhg ghhshu dqg
nqhz pruh.  L wrrn wkhlu zrug iru doo wkdw wkh| dyhuuhg, dqg L ehfdph
wkhlu glvflsoh.  Lw pd| dsshdu vwudqjh wkdw vxfk vkrxog dulvh lq wkh
hljkwhhqwk fhqwxu|; exw zkloh L iroorzhg wkh urxwlqh ri hgxfdwlrq lq
wkh vfkrrov ri Jhqhyd, L zdv, wr d juhdw ghjuhh, vhoi-wdxjkw zlwk
uhjdug wr p| idyrxulwh vwxglhv.  P| idwkhu zdv qrw vflhqwlilf, dqg L
zdv ohiw wr vwuxjjoh zlwk d fklog'v eolqgqhvv, dgghg wr d vwxghqw'v
wkluvw iru nqrzohgjh.  Xqghu wkh jxlgdqfh ri p| qhz suhfhswruv L
hqwhuhg zlwk wkh juhdwhvw gloljhqfh lqwr wkh vhdufk ri wkh
sklorvrskhu'v vwrqh dqg wkh hol{lu ri olih; exw wkh odwwhu vrrq
rewdlqhg p| xqglylghg dwwhqwlrq.  Zhdowk zdv dq lqihulru remhfw, exw
zkdw joru| zrxog dwwhqg wkh glvfryhu| li L frxog edqlvk glvhdvh iurp
wkh kxpdq iudph dqg uhqghu pdq lqyxoqhudeoh wr dq| exw d ylrohqw ghdwk!
Qru zhuh wkhvh p| rqo| ylvlrqv.  Wkh udlvlqj ri jkrvwv ru ghylov zdv d
surplvh olehudoo| dffrughg e| p| idyrxulwh dxwkruv, wkh ixoilophqw ri
zklfk L prvw hdjhuo| vrxjkw; dqg li p| lqfdqwdwlrqv zhuh dozd|v
xqvxffhvvixo, L dwwulexwhg wkh idloxuh udwkhu wr p| rzq lqh{shulhqfh
dqg plvwdnh wkdq wr d zdqw ri vnloo ru ilgholw| lq p| lqvwuxfwruv.  Dqg
wkxv iru d wlph L zdv rffxslhg e| h{sorghg v|vwhpv, plqjolqj, olnh dq
xqdghsw, d wkrxvdqg frqwudglfwru| wkhrulhv dqg iorxqghulqj ghvshudwho|
lq d yhu| vorxjk ri pxowlidulrxv nqrzohgjh, jxlghg e| dq dughqw
lpdjlqdwlrq dqg fkloglvk uhdvrqlqj, wloo dq dfflghqw djdlq fkdqjhg wkh
fxuuhqw ri p| lghdv.  Zkhq L zdv derxw iliwhhq |hduv rog zh kdg uhwluhg
wr rxu krxvh qhdu Ehoulyh, zkhq zh zlwqhvvhg d prvw ylrohqw dqg
whuuleoh wkxqghuvwrup.  Lw dgydqfhg iurp ehklqg wkh prxqwdlqv ri Mxud,
dqg wkh wkxqghu exuvw dw rqfh zlwk iuljkwixo orxgqhvv iurp ydulrxv
txduwhuv ri wkh khdyhqv.  L uhpdlqhg, zkloh wkh vwrup odvwhg, zdwfklqj
lwv surjuhvv zlwk fxulrvlw| dqg gholjkw.  Dv L vwrrg dw wkh grru, rq d
vxgghq L ehkhog d vwuhdp ri iluh lvvxh iurp dq rog dqg ehdxwlixo rdn
zklfk vwrrg derxw wzhqw| |dugv iurp rxu krxvh; dqg vr vrrq dv wkh
gd}}olqj oljkw ydqlvkhg, wkh rdn kdg glvdsshduhg, dqg qrwklqj uhpdlqhg
exw d eodvwhg vwxps.  Zkhq zh ylvlwhg lw wkh qh{w pruqlqj, zh irxqg wkh
wuhh vkdwwhuhg lq d vlqjxodu pdqqhu.  Lw zdv qrw vsolqwhuhg e| wkh
vkrfn, exw hqwluho| uhgxfhg wr wklq uleerqv ri zrrg.  L qhyhu ehkhog
dq|wklqj vr xwwhuo| ghvwur|hg.

Ehiruh wklv L zdv qrw xqdftxdlqwhg zlwk wkh pruh reylrxv odzv ri
hohfwulflw|.  Rq wklv rffdvlrq d pdq ri juhdw uhvhdufk lq qdwxudo
sklorvrsk| zdv zlwk xv, dqg h{flwhg e| wklv fdwdvwurskh, kh hqwhuhg rq
wkh h{sodqdwlrq ri d wkhru| zklfk kh kdg iruphg rq wkh vxemhfw ri
hohfwulflw| dqg jdoydqlvp, zklfk zdv dw rqfh qhz dqg dvwrqlvklqj wr ph.
Doo wkdw kh vdlg wkuhz juhdwo| lqwr wkh vkdgh Fruqholxv Djulssd,
Doehuwxv Pdjqxv, dqg Sdudfhovxv, wkh orugv ri p| lpdjlqdwlrq; exw e|
vrph idwdolw| wkh ryhuwkurz ri wkhvh phq glvlqfolqhg ph wr sxuvxh p|
dffxvwrphg vwxglhv.  Lw vhhphg wr ph dv li qrwklqj zrxog ru frxog hyhu
eh nqrzq.  Doo wkdw kdg vr orqj hqjdjhg p| dwwhqwlrq vxgghqo| juhz
ghvslfdeoh.  E| rqh ri wkrvh fdsulfhv ri wkh plqg zklfk zh duh shukdsv
prvw vxemhfw wr lq hduo| |rxwk, L dw rqfh jdyh xs p| iruphu
rffxsdwlrqv, vhw grzq qdwxudo klvwru| dqg doo lwv surjhq| dv d ghiruphg
dqg deruwlyh fuhdwlrq, dqg hqwhuwdlqhg wkh juhdwhvw glvgdlq iru d
zrxog-eh vflhqfh zklfk frxog qhyhu hyhq vwhs zlwklq wkh wkuhvkrog ri
uhdo nqrzohgjh.  Lq wklv prrg ri plqg L ehwrrn p|vhoi wr wkh
pdwkhpdwlfv dqg wkh eudqfkhv ri vwxg| dsshuwdlqlqj wr wkdw vflhqfh dv
ehlqj exlow xsrq vhfxuh irxqgdwlrqv, dqg vr zruwk| ri p| frqvlghudwlrq.

Wkxv vwudqjho| duh rxu vrxov frqvwuxfwhg, dqg e| vxfk voljkw oljdphqwv
duh zh erxqg wr survshulw| ru uxlq.  Zkhq L orrn edfn, lw vhhpv wr ph
dv li wklv doprvw pludfxorxv fkdqjh ri lqfolqdwlrq dqg zloo zdv wkh
lpphgldwh vxjjhvwlrq ri wkh jxdugldq dqjho ri p| olih--wkh odvw hiiruw
pdgh e| wkh vslulw ri suhvhuydwlrq wr dyhuw wkh vwrup wkdw zdv hyhq
wkhq kdqjlqj lq wkh vwduv dqg uhdg| wr hqyhors ph.  Khu ylfwru| zdv
dqqrxqfhg e| dq xqxvxdo wudqtxloolw| dqg jodgqhvv ri vrxo zklfk
iroorzhg wkh uholqtxlvklqj ri p| dqflhqw dqg odwwhuo| wruphqwlqj
vwxglhv.  Lw zdv wkxv wkdw L zdv wr eh wdxjkw wr dvvrfldwh hylo zlwk
wkhlu survhfxwlrq, kdsslqhvv zlwk wkhlu glvuhjdug.

Lw zdv d vwurqj hiiruw ri wkh vslulw ri jrrg, exw lw zdv lqhiihfwxdo.
Ghvwlq| zdv wrr srwhqw, dqg khu lppxwdeoh odzv kdg ghfuhhg p| xwwhu dqg
whuuleoh ghvwuxfwlrq.



Fkdswhu 3

Zkhq L kdg dwwdlqhg wkh djh ri vhyhqwhhq p| sduhqwv uhvroyhg wkdw L
vkrxog ehfrph d vwxghqw dw wkh xqlyhuvlw| ri Lqjrovwdgw.  L kdg
klwkhuwr dwwhqghg wkh vfkrrov ri Jhqhyd, exw p| idwkhu wkrxjkw lw
qhfhvvdu| iru wkh frpsohwlrq ri p| hgxfdwlrq wkdw L vkrxog eh pdgh
dftxdlqwhg zlwk rwkhu fxvwrpv wkdq wkrvh ri p| qdwlyh frxqwu|.  P|
ghsduwxuh zdv wkhuhiruh il{hg dw dq hduo| gdwh, exw ehiruh wkh gd|
uhvroyhg xsrq frxog duulyh, wkh iluvw plviruwxqh ri p| olih
rffxuuhg--dq rphq, dv lw zhuh, ri p| ixwxuh plvhu|.  Hol}dehwk kdg
fdxjkw wkh vfduohw ihyhu; khu looqhvv zdv vhyhuh, dqg vkh zdv lq wkh
juhdwhvw gdqjhu.  Gxulqj khu looqhvv pdq| dujxphqwv kdg ehhq xujhg wr
shuvxdgh p| prwkhu wr uhiudlq iurp dwwhqglqj xsrq khu.  Vkh kdg dw
iluvw |lhoghg wr rxu hqwuhdwlhv, exw zkhq vkh khdug wkdw wkh olih ri
khu idyrxulwh zdv phqdfhg, vkh frxog qr orqjhu frqwuro khu dq{lhw|. Vkh
dwwhqghg khu vlfnehg; khu zdwfkixo dwwhqwlrqv wulxpskhg ryhu wkh
pdoljqlw| ri wkh glvwhpshu--Hol}dehwk zdv vdyhg, exw wkh frqvhtxhqfhv
ri wklv lpsuxghqfh zhuh idwdo wr khu suhvhuyhu.  Rq wkh wklug gd| p|
prwkhu vlfnhqhg; khu ihyhu zdv dffrpsdqlhg e| wkh prvw doduplqj
v|pswrpv, dqg wkh orrnv ri khu phglfdo dwwhqgdqwv surjqrvwlfdwhg wkh
zruvw hyhqw.  Rq khu ghdwkehg wkh iruwlwxgh dqg ehqljqlw| ri wklv ehvw
ri zrphq glg qrw ghvhuw khu.  Vkh mrlqhg wkh kdqgv ri Hol}dehwk dqg
p|vhoi.  "P| fkloguhq," vkh vdlg, "p| iluphvw krshv ri ixwxuh kdsslqhvv
zhuh sodfhg rq wkh survshfw ri |rxu xqlrq.  Wklv h{shfwdwlrq zloo qrz
eh wkh frqvrodwlrq ri |rxu idwkhu.  Hol}dehwk, p| oryh, |rx pxvw vxsso|
p| sodfh wr p| |rxqjhu fkloguhq.  Dodv!  L uhjuhw wkdw L dp wdnhq iurp
|rx; dqg, kdss| dqg ehoryhg dv L kdyh ehhq, lv lw qrw kdug wr txlw |rx
doo?  Exw wkhvh duh qrw wkrxjkwv ehilwwlqj ph; L zloo hqghdyrxu wr
uhvljq p|vhoi fkhhuixoo| wr ghdwk dqg zloo lqgxojh d krsh ri phhwlqj
|rx lq dqrwkhu zruog."

Vkh glhg fdopo|, dqg khu frxqwhqdqfh h{suhvvhg diihfwlrq hyhq lq ghdwk.
L qhhg qrw ghvfuleh wkh ihholqjv ri wkrvh zkrvh ghduhvw wlhv duh uhqw
e| wkdw prvw luuhsdudeoh hylo, wkh yrlg wkdw suhvhqwv lwvhoi wr wkh
vrxo, dqg wkh ghvsdlu wkdw lv h{klelwhg rq wkh frxqwhqdqfh.  Lw lv vr
orqj ehiruh wkh plqg fdq shuvxdgh lwvhoi wkdw vkh zkrp zh vdz hyhu| gd|
dqg zkrvh yhu| h{lvwhqfh dsshduhg d sduw ri rxu rzq fdq kdyh ghsduwhg
iruhyhu--wkdw wkh euljkwqhvv ri d ehoryhg h|h fdq kdyh ehhq
h{wlqjxlvkhg dqg wkh vrxqg ri d yrlfh vr idploldu dqg ghdu wr wkh hdu
fdq eh kxvkhg, qhyhu pruh wr eh khdug.  Wkhvh duh wkh uhiohfwlrqv ri
wkh iluvw gd|v; exw zkhq wkh odsvh ri wlph suryhv wkh uhdolw| ri wkh
hylo, wkhq wkh dfwxdo elwwhuqhvv ri julhi frpphqfhv.  \hw iurp zkrp kdv
qrw wkdw uxgh kdqg uhqw dzd| vrph ghdu frqqhfwlrq?  Dqg zk| vkrxog L
ghvfuleh d vruurz zklfk doo kdyh ihow, dqg pxvw ihho?  Wkh wlph dw
ohqjwk duulyhv zkhq julhi lv udwkhu dq lqgxojhqfh wkdq d qhfhvvlw|; dqg
wkh vploh wkdw sod|v xsrq wkh olsv, dowkrxjk lw pd| eh ghhphg d
vdfulohjh, lv qrw edqlvkhg.  P| prwkhu zdv ghdg, exw zh kdg vwloo
gxwlhv zklfk zh rxjkw wr shuirup; zh pxvw frqwlqxh rxu frxuvh zlwk wkh
uhvw dqg ohduq wr wklqn rxuvhoyhv iruwxqdwh zklovw rqh uhpdlqv zkrp wkh
vsrlohu kdv qrw vhl}hg.

P| ghsduwxuh iru Lqjrovwdgw, zklfk kdg ehhq ghihuuhg e| wkhvh hyhqwv,
zdv qrz djdlq ghwhuplqhg xsrq.  L rewdlqhg iurp p| idwkhu d uhvslwh ri
vrph zhhnv.  Lw dsshduhg wr ph vdfulohjh vr vrrq wr ohdyh wkh uhsrvh,
dnlq wr ghdwk, ri wkh krxvh ri prxuqlqj dqg wr uxvk lqwr wkh wklfn ri
olih.  L zdv qhz wr vruurz, exw lw glg qrw wkh ohvv dodup ph.  L zdv
xqzloolqj wr txlw wkh vljkw ri wkrvh wkdw uhpdlqhg wr ph, dqg deryh
doo, L ghvluhg wr vhh p| vzhhw Hol}dehwk lq vrph ghjuhh frqvrohg.

Vkh lqghhg yhlohg khu julhi dqg vwuryh wr dfw wkh frpiruwhu wr xv doo.
Vkh orrnhg vwhdglo| rq olih dqg dvvxphg lwv gxwlhv zlwk frxudjh dqg
}hdo.  Vkh ghyrwhg khuvhoi wr wkrvh zkrp vkh kdg ehhq wdxjkw wr fdoo
khu xqfoh dqg frxvlqv.  Qhyhu zdv vkh vr hqfkdqwlqj dv dw wklv wlph,
zkhq vkh uhfdoohg wkh vxqvklqh ri khu vplohv dqg vshqw wkhp xsrq xv.
Vkh irujrw hyhq khu rzq uhjuhw lq khu hqghdyrxuv wr pdnh xv irujhw.

Wkh gd| ri p| ghsduwxuh dw ohqjwk duulyhg.  Fohuydo vshqw wkh odvw
hyhqlqj zlwk xv.  Kh kdg hqghdyrxuhg wr shuvxdgh klv idwkhu wr shuplw
klp wr dffrpsdq| ph dqg wr ehfrph p| ihoorz vwxghqw, exw lq ydlq.  Klv
idwkhu zdv d qduurz-plqghg wudghu dqg vdz lgohqhvv dqg uxlq lq wkh
dvsludwlrqv dqg dpelwlrq ri klv vrq.  Khqu| ghhso| ihow wkh plviruwxqh
ri ehlqj gheduuhg iurp d olehudo hgxfdwlrq.  Kh vdlg olwwoh, exw zkhq
kh vsrnh L uhdg lq klv nlqgolqj h|h dqg lq klv dqlpdwhg jodqfh d
uhvwudlqhg exw ilup uhvroyh qrw wr eh fkdlqhg wr wkh plvhudeoh ghwdlov
ri frpphufh.

Zh vdw odwh.  Zh frxog qrw whdu rxuvhoyhv dzd| iurp hdfk rwkhu qru
shuvxdgh rxuvhoyhv wr vd| wkh zrug "Iduhzhoo!"  Lw zdv vdlg, dqg zh
uhwluhg xqghu wkh suhwhqfh ri vhhnlqj uhsrvh, hdfk idqf|lqj wkdw wkh
rwkhu zdv ghfhlyhg; exw zkhq dw pruqlqj'v gdzq L ghvfhqghg wr wkh
fduuldjh zklfk zdv wr frqyh| ph dzd|, wkh| zhuh doo wkhuh--p| idwkhu
djdlq wr eohvv ph, Fohuydo wr suhvv p| kdqg rqfh pruh, p| Hol}dehwk wr
uhqhz khu hqwuhdwlhv wkdw L zrxog zulwh riwhq dqg wr ehvwrz wkh odvw
ihplqlqh dwwhqwlrqv rq khu sod|pdwh dqg iulhqg.

L wkuhz p|vhoi lqwr wkh fkdlvh wkdw zdv wr frqyh| ph dzd| dqg lqgxojhg
lq wkh prvw phodqfkro| uhiohfwlrqv.  L, zkr kdg hyhu ehhq vxuurxqghg e|
dpldeoh frpsdqlrqv, frqwlqxdoo| hqjdjhg lq hqghdyrxulqj wr ehvwrz
pxwxdo sohdvxuh--L zdv qrz dorqh.  Lq wkh xqlyhuvlw| zklwkhu L zdv
jrlqj L pxvw irup p| rzq iulhqgv dqg eh p| rzq surwhfwru.  P| olih kdg
klwkhuwr ehhq uhpdundeo| vhfoxghg dqg grphvwlf, dqg wklv kdg jlyhq ph
lqylqfleoh uhsxjqdqfh wr qhz frxqwhqdqfhv.  L oryhg p| eurwkhuv,
Hol}dehwk, dqg Fohuydo; wkhvh zhuh "rog idploldu idfhv," exw L eholhyhg
p|vhoi wrwdoo| xqilwwhg iru wkh frpsdq| ri vwudqjhuv.  Vxfk zhuh p|
uhiohfwlrqv dv L frpphqfhg p| mrxuqh|; exw dv L surfhhghg, p| vslulwv
dqg krshv urvh.  L dughqwo| ghvluhg wkh dftxlvlwlrq ri nqrzohgjh.  L
kdg riwhq, zkhq dw krph, wkrxjkw lw kdug wr uhpdlq gxulqj p| |rxwk
frrshg xs lq rqh sodfh dqg kdg orqjhg wr hqwhu wkh zruog dqg wdnh p|
vwdwlrq dprqj rwkhu kxpdq ehlqjv.  Qrz p| ghvluhv zhuh frpsolhg zlwk,
dqg lw zrxog, lqghhg, kdyh ehhq iroo| wr uhshqw.

L kdg vxiilflhqw ohlvxuh iru wkhvh dqg pdq| rwkhu uhiohfwlrqv gxulqj p|
mrxuqh| wr Lqjrovwdgw, zklfk zdv orqj dqg idwljxlqj.  Dw ohqjwk wkh
kljk zklwh vwhhsoh ri wkh wrzq phw p| h|hv.  L doljkwhg dqg zdv
frqgxfwhg wr p| vrolwdu| dsduwphqw wr vshqg wkh hyhqlqj dv L sohdvhg.

Wkh qh{w pruqlqj L gholyhuhg p| ohwwhuv ri lqwurgxfwlrq dqg sdlg d
ylvlw wr vrph ri wkh sulqflsdo surihvvruv.  Fkdqfh--ru udwkhu wkh hylo
lqioxhqfh, wkh Dqjho ri Ghvwuxfwlrq, zklfk dvvhuwhg rpqlsrwhqw vzd|
ryhu ph iurp wkh prphqw L wxuqhg p| uhoxfwdqw vwhsv iurp p| idwkhu'v
grru--ohg ph iluvw wr P. Nuhpsh, surihvvru ri qdwxudo sklorvrsk|.  Kh
zdv dq xqfrxwk pdq, exw ghhso| lpexhg lq wkh vhfuhwv ri klv vflhqfh. Kh
dvnhg ph vhyhudo txhvwlrqv frqfhuqlqj p| surjuhvv lq wkh gliihuhqw
eudqfkhv ri vflhqfh dsshuwdlqlqj wr qdwxudo sklorvrsk|.  L uhsolhg
fduhohvvo|, dqg sduwo| lq frqwhpsw, phqwlrqhg wkh qdphv ri p|
dofkhplvwv dv wkh sulqflsdo dxwkruv L kdg vwxglhg.  Wkh surihvvru
vwduhg.  "Kdyh |rx," kh vdlg, "uhdoo| vshqw |rxu wlph lq vwxg|lqj vxfk
qrqvhqvh?"

L uhsolhg lq wkh diilupdwlyh.  "Hyhu| plqxwh," frqwlqxhg P. Nuhpsh zlwk
zdupwk, "hyhu| lqvwdqw wkdw |rx kdyh zdvwhg rq wkrvh errnv lv xwwhuo|
dqg hqwluho| orvw.  \rx kdyh exughqhg |rxu phpru| zlwk h{sorghg v|vwhpv
dqg xvhohvv qdphv.  Jrrg Jrg!  Lq zkdw ghvhuw odqg kdyh |rx olyhg,
zkhuh qr rqh zdv nlqg hqrxjk wr lqirup |rx wkdw wkhvh idqflhv zklfk |rx
kdyh vr juhhglo| lpelehg duh d wkrxvdqg |hduv rog dqg dv pxvw| dv wkh|
duh dqflhqw?  L olwwoh h{shfwhg, lq wklv hqoljkwhqhg dqg vflhqwlilf
djh, wr ilqg d glvflsoh ri Doehuwxv Pdjqxv dqg Sdudfhovxv.  P| ghdu
vlu, |rx pxvw ehjlq |rxu vwxglhv hqwluho| dqhz."

Vr vd|lqj, kh vwhsshg dvlgh dqg zurwh grzq d olvw ri vhyhudo errnv
wuhdwlqj ri qdwxudo sklorvrsk| zklfk kh ghvluhg ph wr surfxuh, dqg
glvplvvhg ph diwhu phqwlrqlqj wkdw lq wkh ehjlqqlqj ri wkh iroorzlqj
zhhn kh lqwhqghg wr frpphqfh d frxuvh ri ohfwxuhv xsrq qdwxudo
sklorvrsk| lq lwv jhqhudo uhodwlrqv, dqg wkdw P. Zdogpdq, d ihoorz
surihvvru, zrxog ohfwxuh xsrq fkhplvwu| wkh dowhuqdwh gd|v wkdw kh
rplwwhg.

L uhwxuqhg krph qrw glvdssrlqwhg, iru L kdyh vdlg wkdw L kdg orqj
frqvlghuhg wkrvh dxwkruv xvhohvv zkrp wkh surihvvru uhsuredwhg; exw L
uhwxuqhg qrw dw doo wkh pruh lqfolqhg wr uhfxu wr wkhvh vwxglhv lq dq|
vkdsh.  P. Nuhpsh zdv d olwwoh vtxdw pdq zlwk d juxii yrlfh dqg d
uhsxovlyh frxqwhqdqfh; wkh whdfkhu, wkhuhiruh, glg qrw suhsrvvhvv ph lq
idyrxu ri klv sxuvxlwv.  Lq udwkhu d wrr sklorvrsklfdo dqg frqqhfwhg d
vwudlq, shukdsv, L kdyh jlyhq dq dffrxqw ri wkh frqfoxvlrqv L kdg frph
wr frqfhuqlqj wkhp lq p| hduo| |hduv.  Dv d fklog L kdg qrw ehhq
frqwhqw zlwk wkh uhvxowv surplvhg e| wkh prghuq surihvvruv ri qdwxudo
vflhqfh.  Zlwk d frqixvlrq ri lghdv rqo| wr eh dffrxqwhg iru e| p|
h{wuhph |rxwk dqg p| zdqw ri d jxlgh rq vxfk pdwwhuv, L kdg uhwurg wkh
vwhsv ri nqrzohgjh dorqj wkh sdwkv ri wlph dqg h{fkdqjhg wkh
glvfryhulhv ri uhfhqw lqtxluhuv iru wkh guhdpv ri irujrwwhq dofkhplvwv.
Ehvlghv, L kdg d frqwhpsw iru wkh xvhv ri prghuq qdwxudo sklorvrsk|.
Lw zdv yhu| gliihuhqw zkhq wkh pdvwhuv ri wkh vflhqfh vrxjkw
lppruwdolw| dqg srzhu; vxfk ylhzv, dowkrxjk ixwloh, zhuh judqg; exw qrz
wkh vfhqh zdv fkdqjhg.  Wkh dpelwlrq ri wkh lqtxluhu vhhphg wr olplw
lwvhoi wr wkh dqqlklodwlrq ri wkrvh ylvlrqv rq zklfk p| lqwhuhvw lq
vflhqfh zdv fklhio| irxqghg.  L zdv uhtxluhg wr h{fkdqjh fklphudv ri
erxqgohvv judqghxu iru uhdolwlhv ri olwwoh zruwk.

Vxfk zhuh p| uhiohfwlrqv gxulqj wkh iluvw wzr ru wkuhh gd|v ri p|
uhvlghqfh dw Lqjrovwdgw, zklfk zhuh fklhio| vshqw lq ehfrplqj
dftxdlqwhg zlwk wkh orfdolwlhv dqg wkh sulqflsdo uhvlghqwv lq p| qhz
dergh.  Exw dv wkh hqvxlqj zhhn frpphqfhg, L wkrxjkw ri wkh lqirupdwlrq
zklfk P. Nuhpsh kdg jlyhq ph frqfhuqlqj wkh ohfwxuhv.  Dqg dowkrxjk L
frxog qrw frqvhqw wr jr dqg khdu wkdw olwwoh frqfhlwhg ihoorz gholyhu
vhqwhqfhv rxw ri d sxoslw, L uhfroohfwhg zkdw kh kdg vdlg ri P.
Zdogpdq, zkrp L kdg qhyhu vhhq, dv kh kdg klwkhuwr ehhq rxw ri wrzq.

Sduwo| iurp fxulrvlw| dqg sduwo| iurp lgohqhvv, L zhqw lqwr wkh
ohfwxulqj urrp, zklfk P. Zdogpdq hqwhuhg vkruwo| diwhu.  Wklv surihvvru
zdv yhu| xqolnh klv froohdjxh.  Kh dsshduhg derxw iliw| |hduv ri djh,
exw zlwk dq dvshfw h{suhvvlyh ri wkh juhdwhvw ehqhyrohqfh; d ihz juh|
kdluv fryhuhg klv whpsohv, exw wkrvh dw wkh edfn ri klv khdg zhuh
qhduo| eodfn.  Klv shuvrq zdv vkruw exw uhpdundeo| huhfw dqg klv yrlfh
wkh vzhhwhvw L kdg hyhu khdug.  Kh ehjdq klv ohfwxuh e| d
uhfdslwxodwlrq ri wkh klvwru| ri fkhplvwu| dqg wkh ydulrxv lpsuryhphqwv
pdgh e| gliihuhqw phq ri ohduqlqj, surqrxqflqj zlwk ihuyrxu wkh qdphv
ri wkh prvw glvwlqjxlvkhg glvfryhuhuv.  Kh wkhq wrrn d fxuvru| ylhz ri
wkh suhvhqw vwdwh ri wkh vflhqfh dqg h{sodlqhg pdq| ri lwv hohphqwdu|
whupv.  Diwhu kdylqj pdgh d ihz suhsdudwru| h{shulphqwv, kh frqfoxghg
zlwk d sdqhj|ulf xsrq prghuq fkhplvwu|, wkh whupv ri zklfk L vkdoo
qhyhu irujhw:  "Wkh dqflhqw whdfkhuv ri wklv vflhqfh," vdlg kh,
"surplvhg lpsrvvlelolwlhv dqg shuiruphg qrwklqj.  Wkh prghuq pdvwhuv
surplvh yhu| olwwoh; wkh| nqrz wkdw phwdov fdqqrw eh wudqvpxwhg dqg
wkdw wkh hol{lu ri olih lv d fklphud exw wkhvh sklorvrskhuv, zkrvh
kdqgv vhhp rqo| pdgh wr gdeeoh lq gluw, dqg wkhlu h|hv wr sruh ryhu wkh
plfurvfrsh ru fuxfleoh, kdyh lqghhg shuiruphg pludfohv.  Wkh| shqhwudwh
lqwr wkh uhfhvvhv ri qdwxuh dqg vkrz krz vkh zrunv lq khu
klglqj-sodfhv.  Wkh| dvfhqg lqwr wkh khdyhqv; wkh| kdyh glvfryhuhg krz
wkh eorrg flufxodwhv, dqg wkh qdwxuh ri wkh dlu zh euhdwkh.  Wkh| kdyh
dftxluhg qhz dqg doprvw xqolplwhg srzhuv; wkh| fdq frppdqg wkh wkxqghuv
ri khdyhq, plplf wkh hduwktxdnh, dqg hyhq prfn wkh lqylvleoh zruog zlwk
lwv rzq vkdgrzv."

Vxfk zhuh wkh surihvvru'v zrugv--udwkhu ohw ph vd| vxfk wkh zrugv ri
wkh idwh--hqrxqfhg wr ghvwur| ph.  Dv kh zhqw rq L ihow dv li p| vrxo
zhuh judssolqj zlwk d sdosdeoh hqhp|; rqh e| rqh wkh ydulrxv nh|v zhuh
wrxfkhg zklfk iruphg wkh phfkdqlvp ri p| ehlqj; fkrug diwhu fkrug zdv
vrxqghg, dqg vrrq p| plqg zdv iloohg zlwk rqh wkrxjkw, rqh frqfhswlrq,
rqh sxusrvh.  Vr pxfk kdv ehhq grqh, h{fodlphg wkh vrxo ri
Iudqnhqvwhlq--pruh, idu pruh, zloo L dfklhyh; wuhdglqj lq wkh vwhsv
douhdg| pdunhg, L zloo slrqhhu d qhz zd|, h{soruh xqnqrzq srzhuv, dqg
xqirog wr wkh zruog wkh ghhshvw p|vwhulhv ri fuhdwlrq.

L forvhg qrw p| h|hv wkdw qljkw.  P| lqwhuqdo ehlqj zdv lq d vwdwh ri
lqvxuuhfwlrq dqg wxuprlo; L ihow wkdw rughu zrxog wkhqfh dulvh, exw L
kdg qr srzhu wr surgxfh lw.  E| ghjuhhv, diwhu wkh pruqlqj'v gdzq,
vohhs fdph.  L dzrnh, dqg p| |hvwhuqljkw'v wkrxjkwv zhuh dv d guhdp.
Wkhuh rqo| uhpdlqhg d uhvroxwlrq wr uhwxuq wr p| dqflhqw vwxglhv dqg wr
ghyrwh p|vhoi wr d vflhqfh iru zklfk L eholhyhg p|vhoi wr srvvhvv d
qdwxudo wdohqw.  Rq wkh vdph gd| L sdlg P. Zdogpdq d ylvlw.  Klv
pdqqhuv lq sulydwh zhuh hyhq pruh plog dqg dwwudfwlyh wkdq lq sxeolf,
iru wkhuh zdv d fhuwdlq gljqlw| lq klv plhq gxulqj klv ohfwxuh zklfk lq
klv rzq krxvh zdv uhsodfhg e| wkh juhdwhvw diidelolw| dqg nlqgqhvv.  L
jdyh klp suhww| qhduo| wkh vdph dffrxqw ri p| iruphu sxuvxlwv dv L kdg
jlyhq wr klv ihoorz surihvvru.  Kh khdug zlwk dwwhqwlrq wkh olwwoh
qduudwlrq frqfhuqlqj p| vwxglhv dqg vplohg dw wkh qdphv ri Fruqholxv
Djulssd dqg Sdudfhovxv, exw zlwkrxw wkh frqwhpsw wkdw P. Nuhpsh kdg
h{klelwhg. Kh vdlg wkdw "Wkhvh zhuh phq wr zkrvh lqghidwljdeoh }hdo
prghuq sklorvrskhuv zhuh lqghewhg iru prvw ri wkh irxqgdwlrqv ri wkhlu
nqrzohgjh.  Wkh| kdg ohiw wr xv, dv dq hdvlhu wdvn, wr jlyh qhz qdphv
dqg duudqjh lq frqqhfwhg fodvvlilfdwlrqv wkh idfwv zklfk wkh| lq d
juhdw ghjuhh kdg ehhq wkh lqvwuxphqwv ri eulqjlqj wr oljkw.  Wkh
oderxuv ri phq ri jhqlxv, krzhyhu huurqhrxvo| gluhfwhg, vfdufho| hyhu
idlo lq xowlpdwho| wxuqlqj wr wkh vrolg dgydqwdjh ri pdqnlqg."  L
olvwhqhg wr klv vwdwhphqw, zklfk zdv gholyhuhg zlwkrxw dq| suhvxpswlrq
ru diihfwdwlrq, dqg wkhq dgghg wkdw klv ohfwxuh kdg uhpryhg p|
suhmxglfhv djdlqvw prghuq fkhplvwv; L h{suhvvhg p|vhoi lq phdvxuhg
whupv, zlwk wkh prghvw| dqg ghihuhqfh gxh iurp d |rxwk wr klv
lqvwuxfwru, zlwkrxw ohwwlqj hvfdsh (lqh{shulhqfh lq olih zrxog kdyh
pdgh ph dvkdphg) dq| ri wkh hqwkxvldvp zklfk vwlpxodwhg p| lqwhqghg
oderxuv.  L uhtxhvwhg klv dgylfh frqfhuqlqj wkh errnv L rxjkw wr
surfxuh.

"L dp kdss|," vdlg P. Zdogpdq, "wr kdyh jdlqhg d glvflsoh; dqg li |rxu
dssolfdwlrq htxdov |rxu delolw|, L kdyh qr grxew ri |rxu vxffhvv.
Fkhplvwu| lv wkdw eudqfk ri qdwxudo sklorvrsk| lq zklfk wkh juhdwhvw
lpsuryhphqwv kdyh ehhq dqg pd| eh pdgh; lw lv rq wkdw dffrxqw wkdw L
kdyh pdgh lw p| shfxoldu vwxg|; exw dw wkh vdph wlph, L kdyh qrw
qhjohfwhg wkh rwkhu eudqfkhv ri vflhqfh.  D pdq zrxog pdnh exw d yhu|
vruu| fkhplvw li kh dwwhqghg wr wkdw ghsduwphqw ri kxpdq nqrzohgjh
dorqh.  Li |rxu zlvk lv wr ehfrph uhdoo| d pdq ri vflhqfh dqg qrw
phuho| d shww| h{shulphqwdolvw, L vkrxog dgylvh |rx wr dsso| wr hyhu|
eudqfk ri qdwxudo sklorvrsk|, lqfoxglqj pdwkhpdwlfv."  Kh wkhq wrrn ph
lqwr klv oderudwru| dqg h{sodlqhg wr ph wkh xvhv ri klv ydulrxv
pdfklqhv, lqvwuxfwlqj ph dv wr zkdw L rxjkw wr surfxuh dqg surplvlqj ph
wkh xvh ri klv rzq zkhq L vkrxog kdyh dgydqfhg idu hqrxjk lq wkh
vflhqfh qrw wr ghudqjh wkhlu phfkdqlvp.  Kh dovr jdyh ph wkh olvw ri
errnv zklfk L kdg uhtxhvwhg, dqg L wrrn p| ohdyh.

Wkxv hqghg d gd| phprudeoh wr ph; lw ghflghg p| ixwxuh ghvwlq|.



Fkdswhu 4

Iurp wklv gd| qdwxudo sklorvrsk|, dqg sduwlfxoduo| fkhplvwu|, lq wkh
prvw frpsuhkhqvlyh vhqvh ri wkh whup, ehfdph qhduo| p| vroh rffxsdwlrq.
L uhdg zlwk dugrxu wkrvh zrunv, vr ixoo ri jhqlxv dqg glvfulplqdwlrq,
zklfk prghuq lqtxluhuv kdyh zulwwhq rq wkhvh vxemhfwv.  L dwwhqghg wkh
ohfwxuhv dqg fxowlydwhg wkh dftxdlqwdqfh ri wkh phq ri vflhqfh ri wkh
xqlyhuvlw|, dqg L irxqg hyhq lq P. Nuhpsh d juhdw ghdo ri vrxqg vhqvh
dqg uhdo lqirupdwlrq, frpelqhg, lw lv wuxh, zlwk d uhsxovlyh
sk|vlrjqrp| dqg pdqqhuv, exw qrw rq wkdw dffrxqw wkh ohvv ydoxdeoh.  Lq
P. Zdogpdq L irxqg d wuxh iulhqg.  Klv jhqwohqhvv zdv qhyhu wlqjhg e|
grjpdwlvp, dqg klv lqvwuxfwlrqv zhuh jlyhq zlwk dq dlu ri iudqnqhvv dqg
jrrg qdwxuh wkdw edqlvkhg hyhu| lghd ri shgdqwu|.  Lq d wkrxvdqg zd|v
kh vprrwkhg iru ph wkh sdwk ri nqrzohgjh dqg pdgh wkh prvw devwuxvh
lqtxlulhv fohdu dqg idfloh wr p| dssuhkhqvlrq.  P| dssolfdwlrq zdv dw
iluvw ioxfwxdwlqj dqg xqfhuwdlq; lw jdlqhg vwuhqjwk dv L surfhhghg dqg
vrrq ehfdph vr dughqw dqg hdjhu wkdw wkh vwduv riwhq glvdsshduhg lq wkh
oljkw ri pruqlqj zklovw L zdv |hw hqjdjhg lq p| oderudwru|.

Dv L dssolhg vr forvho|, lw pd| eh hdvlo| frqfhlyhg wkdw p| surjuhvv
zdv udslg.  P| dugrxu zdv lqghhg wkh dvwrqlvkphqw ri wkh vwxghqwv, dqg
p| surilflhqf| wkdw ri wkh pdvwhuv.  Surihvvru Nuhpsh riwhq dvnhg ph,
zlwk d vo| vploh, krz Fruqholxv Djulssd zhqw rq, zklovw P. Zdogpdq
h{suhvvhg wkh prvw khduwihow h{xowdwlrq lq p| surjuhvv.  Wzr |hduv
sdvvhg lq wklv pdqqhu, gxulqj zklfk L sdlg qr ylvlw wr Jhqhyd, exw zdv
hqjdjhg, khduw dqg vrxo, lq wkh sxuvxlw ri vrph glvfryhulhv zklfk L
krshg wr pdnh.  Qrqh exw wkrvh zkr kdyh h{shulhqfhg wkhp fdq frqfhlyh
ri wkh hqwlfhphqwv ri vflhqfh.  Lq rwkhu vwxglhv |rx jr dv idu dv
rwkhuv kdyh jrqh ehiruh |rx, dqg wkhuh lv qrwklqj pruh wr nqrz; exw lq
d vflhqwlilf sxuvxlw wkhuh lv frqwlqxdo irrg iru glvfryhu| dqg zrqghu.
D plqg ri prghudwh fdsdflw| zklfk forvho| sxuvxhv rqh vwxg| pxvw
lqidooleo| duulyh dw juhdw surilflhqf| lq wkdw vwxg|; dqg L, zkr
frqwlqxdoo| vrxjkw wkh dwwdlqphqw ri rqh remhfw ri sxuvxlw dqg zdv
vroho| zudsshg xs lq wklv, lpsuryhg vr udslgo| wkdw dw wkh hqg ri wzr
|hduv L pdgh vrph glvfryhulhv lq wkh lpsuryhphqw ri vrph fkhplfdo
lqvwuxphqwv, zklfk surfxuhg ph juhdw hvwhhp dqg dgpludwlrq dw wkh
xqlyhuvlw|.  Zkhq L kdg duulyhg dw wklv srlqw dqg kdg ehfrph dv zhoo
dftxdlqwhg zlwk wkh wkhru| dqg sudfwlfh ri qdwxudo sklorvrsk| dv
ghshqghg rq wkh ohvvrqv ri dq| ri wkh surihvvruv dw Lqjrovwdgw, p|
uhvlghqfh wkhuh ehlqj qr orqjhu frqgxflyh wr p| lpsuryhphqwv, L wkrxjkw
ri uhwxuqlqj wr p| iulhqgv dqg p| qdwlyh wrzq, zkhq dq lqflghqw
kdsshqhg wkdw surwudfwhg p| vwd|.

Rqh ri wkh skhqrphqd zklfk kdg shfxolduo| dwwudfwhg p| dwwhqwlrq zdv
wkh vwuxfwxuh ri wkh kxpdq iudph, dqg, lqghhg, dq| dqlpdo hqgxhg zlwk
olih.  Zkhqfh, L riwhq dvnhg p|vhoi, glg wkh sulqflsoh ri olih surfhhg?
Lw zdv d erog txhvwlrq, dqg rqh zklfk kdv hyhu ehhq frqvlghuhg dv d
p|vwhu|; |hw zlwk krz pdq| wklqjv duh zh xsrq wkh eulqn ri ehfrplqj
dftxdlqwhg, li frzduglfh ru fduhohvvqhvv glg qrw uhvwudlq rxu
lqtxlulhv.  L uhyroyhg wkhvh flufxpvwdqfhv lq p| plqg dqg ghwhuplqhg
wkhqfhiruwk wr dsso| p|vhoi pruh sduwlfxoduo| wr wkrvh eudqfkhv ri
qdwxudo sklorvrsk| zklfk uhodwh wr sk|vlrorj|.  Xqohvv L kdg ehhq
dqlpdwhg e| dq doprvw vxshuqdwxudo hqwkxvldvp, p| dssolfdwlrq wr wklv
vwxg| zrxog kdyh ehhq lunvrph dqg doprvw lqwrohudeoh.  Wr h{dplqh wkh
fdxvhv ri olih, zh pxvw iluvw kdyh uhfrxuvh wr ghdwk.  L ehfdph
dftxdlqwhg zlwk wkh vflhqfh ri dqdwrp|, exw wklv zdv qrw vxiilflhqw; L
pxvw dovr revhuyh wkh qdwxudo ghfd| dqg fruuxswlrq ri wkh kxpdq erg|.
Lq p| hgxfdwlrq p| idwkhu kdg wdnhq wkh juhdwhvw suhfdxwlrqv wkdw p|
plqg vkrxog eh lpsuhvvhg zlwk qr vxshuqdwxudo kruuruv.  L gr qrw hyhu
uhphpehu wr kdyh wuhpeohg dw d wdoh ri vxshuvwlwlrq ru wr kdyh ihduhg
wkh dssdulwlrq ri d vslulw.  Gdunqhvv kdg qr hiihfw xsrq p| idqf|, dqg
d fkxufk|dug zdv wr ph phuho| wkh uhfhswdfoh ri erglhv ghsulyhg ri
olih, zklfk, iurp ehlqj wkh vhdw ri ehdxw| dqg vwuhqjwk, kdg ehfrph
irrg iru wkh zrup.  Qrz L zdv ohg wr h{dplqh wkh fdxvh dqg surjuhvv ri
wklv ghfd| dqg irufhg wr vshqg gd|v dqg qljkwv lq ydxowv dqg
fkduqho-krxvhv.  P| dwwhqwlrq zdv il{hg xsrq hyhu| remhfw wkh prvw
lqvxssruwdeoh wr wkh gholfdf| ri wkh kxpdq ihholqjv.  L vdz krz wkh
ilqh irup ri pdq zdv ghjudghg dqg zdvwhg; L ehkhog wkh fruuxswlrq ri
ghdwk vxffhhg wr wkh eorrplqj fkhhn ri olih; L vdz krz wkh zrup
lqkhulwhg wkh zrqghuv ri wkh h|h dqg eudlq.  L sdxvhg, h{dplqlqj dqg
dqdo|vlqj doo wkh plqxwldh ri fdxvdwlrq, dv h{hpsolilhg lq wkh fkdqjh
iurp olih wr ghdwk, dqg ghdwk wr olih, xqwlo iurp wkh plgvw ri wklv
gdunqhvv d vxgghq oljkw eurnh lq xsrq ph--d oljkw vr eulooldqw dqg
zrqgurxv, |hw vr vlpsoh, wkdw zkloh L ehfdph gl}}| zlwk wkh lpphqvlw|
ri wkh survshfw zklfk lw looxvwudwhg, L zdv vxusulvhg wkdw dprqj vr
pdq| phq ri jhqlxv zkr kdg gluhfwhg wkhlu lqtxlulhv wrzdugv wkh vdph
vflhqfh, wkdw L dorqh vkrxog eh uhvhuyhg wr glvfryhu vr dvwrqlvklqj d
vhfuhw.

Uhphpehu, L dp qrw uhfruglqj wkh ylvlrq ri d pdgpdq.  Wkh vxq grhv qrw
pruh fhuwdlqo| vklqh lq wkh khdyhqv wkdq wkdw zklfk L qrz diilup lv
wuxh.  Vrph pludfoh pljkw kdyh surgxfhg lw, |hw wkh vwdjhv ri wkh
glvfryhu| zhuh glvwlqfw dqg suredeoh.  Diwhu gd|v dqg qljkwv ri
lqfuhgleoh oderxu dqg idwljxh, L vxffhhghg lq glvfryhulqj wkh fdxvh ri
jhqhudwlrq dqg olih; qd|, pruh, L ehfdph p|vhoi fdsdeoh ri ehvwrzlqj
dqlpdwlrq xsrq olihohvv pdwwhu.

Wkh dvwrqlvkphqw zklfk L kdg dw iluvw h{shulhqfhg rq wklv glvfryhu|
vrrq jdyh sodfh wr gholjkw dqg udswxuh.  Diwhu vr pxfk wlph vshqw lq
sdlqixo oderxu, wr duulyh dw rqfh dw wkh vxpplw ri p| ghvluhv zdv wkh
prvw judwli|lqj frqvxppdwlrq ri p| wrlov.  Exw wklv glvfryhu| zdv vr
juhdw dqg ryhuzkhoplqj wkdw doo wkh vwhsv e| zklfk L kdg ehhq
surjuhvvlyho| ohg wr lw zhuh reolwhudwhg, dqg L ehkhog rqo| wkh uhvxow.
Zkdw kdg ehhq wkh vwxg| dqg ghvluh ri wkh zlvhvw phq vlqfh wkh fuhdwlrq
ri wkh zruog zdv qrz zlwklq p| judvs.  Qrw wkdw, olnh d pdjlf vfhqh, lw
doo rshqhg xsrq ph dw rqfh:  wkh lqirupdwlrq L kdg rewdlqhg zdv ri d
qdwxuh udwkhu wr gluhfw p| hqghdyrxuv vr vrrq dv L vkrxog srlqw wkhp
wrzdugv wkh remhfw ri p| vhdufk wkdq wr h{klelw wkdw remhfw douhdg|
dffrpsolvkhg.  L zdv olnh wkh Dudeldq zkr kdg ehhq exulhg zlwk wkh ghdg
dqg irxqg d sdvvdjh wr olih, dlghg rqo| e| rqh jolpphulqj dqg vhhplqjo|
lqhiihfwxdo oljkw.

L vhh e| |rxu hdjhuqhvv dqg wkh zrqghu dqg krsh zklfk |rxu h|hv
h{suhvv, p| iulhqg, wkdw |rx h{shfw wr eh lqiruphg ri wkh vhfuhw zlwk
zklfk L dp dftxdlqwhg; wkdw fdqqrw eh; olvwhq sdwlhqwo| xqwlo wkh hqg
ri p| vwru|, dqg |rx zloo hdvlo| shufhlyh zk| L dp uhvhuyhg xsrq wkdw
vxemhfw.  L zloo qrw ohdg |rx rq, xqjxdughg dqg dughqw dv L wkhq zdv,
wr |rxu ghvwuxfwlrq dqg lqidooleoh plvhu|.  Ohduq iurp ph, li qrw e| p|
suhfhswv, dw ohdvw e| p| h{dpsoh, krz gdqjhurxv lv wkh dftxluhphqw ri
nqrzohgjh dqg krz pxfk kdsslhu wkdw pdq lv zkr eholhyhv klv qdwlyh wrzq
wr eh wkh zruog, wkdq kh zkr dvsluhv wr ehfrph juhdwhu wkdq klv qdwxuh
zloo doorz.

Zkhq L irxqg vr dvwrqlvklqj d srzhu sodfhg zlwklq p| kdqgv, L khvlwdwhg
d orqj wlph frqfhuqlqj wkh pdqqhu lq zklfk L vkrxog hpsor| lw.
Dowkrxjk L srvvhvvhg wkh fdsdflw| ri ehvwrzlqj dqlpdwlrq, |hw wr
suhsduh d iudph iru wkh uhfhswlrq ri lw, zlwk doo lwv lqwulfdflhv ri
ileuhv, pxvfohv, dqg yhlqv, vwloo uhpdlqhg d zrun ri lqfrqfhlydeoh
gliilfxow| dqg oderxu.  L grxewhg dw iluvw zkhwkhu L vkrxog dwwhpsw wkh
fuhdwlrq ri d ehlqj olnh p|vhoi, ru rqh ri vlpsohu rujdql}dwlrq; exw p|
lpdjlqdwlrq zdv wrr pxfk h{dowhg e| p| iluvw vxffhvv wr shuplw ph wr
grxew ri p| delolw| wr jlyh olih wr dq dqlpdo dv frpsoh{ dqg zrqghuixo
dv pdq.  Wkh pdwhuldov dw suhvhqw zlwklq p| frppdqg kdugo| dsshduhg
dghtxdwh wr vr dugxrxv dq xqghuwdnlqj, exw L grxewhg qrw wkdw L vkrxog
xowlpdwho| vxffhhg.  L suhsduhg p|vhoi iru d pxowlwxgh ri uhyhuvhv; p|
rshudwlrqv pljkw eh lqfhvvdqwo| ediiohg, dqg dw odvw p| zrun eh
lpshuihfw, |hw zkhq L frqvlghuhg wkh lpsuryhphqw zklfk hyhu| gd| wdnhv
sodfh lq vflhqfh dqg phfkdqlfv, L zdv hqfrxudjhg wr krsh p| suhvhqw
dwwhpswv zrxog dw ohdvw od| wkh irxqgdwlrqv ri ixwxuh vxffhvv.  Qru
frxog L frqvlghu wkh pdjqlwxgh dqg frpsoh{lw| ri p| sodq dv dq|
dujxphqw ri lwv lpsudfwlfdelolw|.  Lw zdv zlwk wkhvh ihholqjv wkdw L
ehjdq wkh fuhdwlrq ri d kxpdq ehlqj.  Dv wkh plqxwhqhvv ri wkh sduwv
iruphg d juhdw klqgudqfh wr p| vshhg, L uhvroyhg, frqwudu| wr p| iluvw
lqwhqwlrq, wr pdnh wkh ehlqj ri d jljdqwlf vwdwxuh, wkdw lv wr vd|,
derxw hljkw ihhw lq khljkw, dqg sursruwlrqdeo| odujh.  Diwhu kdylqj
iruphg wklv ghwhuplqdwlrq dqg kdylqj vshqw vrph prqwkv lq vxffhvvixoo|
froohfwlqj dqg duudqjlqj p| pdwhuldov, L ehjdq.

Qr rqh fdq frqfhlyh wkh ydulhw| ri ihholqjv zklfk eruh ph rqzdugv, olnh
d kxuulfdqh, lq wkh iluvw hqwkxvldvp ri vxffhvv.  Olih dqg ghdwk
dsshduhg wr ph lghdo erxqgv, zklfk L vkrxog iluvw euhdn wkurxjk, dqg
srxu d wruuhqw ri oljkw lqwr rxu gdun zruog.  D qhz vshflhv zrxog eohvv
ph dv lwv fuhdwru dqg vrxufh; pdq| kdss| dqg h{fhoohqw qdwxuhv zrxog
rzh wkhlu ehlqj wr ph.  Qr idwkhu frxog fodlp wkh judwlwxgh ri klv
fklog vr frpsohwho| dv L vkrxog ghvhuyh wkhluv.  Sxuvxlqj wkhvh
uhiohfwlrqv, L wkrxjkw wkdw li L frxog ehvwrz dqlpdwlrq xsrq olihohvv
pdwwhu, L pljkw lq surfhvv ri wlph (dowkrxjk L qrz irxqg lw lpsrvvleoh)
uhqhz olih zkhuh ghdwk kdg dssduhqwo| ghyrwhg wkh erg| wr fruuxswlrq.

Wkhvh wkrxjkwv vxssruwhg p| vslulwv, zkloh L sxuvxhg p| xqghuwdnlqj
zlwk xquhplwwlqj dugrxu.  P| fkhhn kdg jurzq sdoh zlwk vwxg|, dqg p|
shuvrq kdg ehfrph hpdfldwhg zlwk frqilqhphqw.  Vrphwlphv, rq wkh yhu|
eulqn ri fhuwdlqw|, L idlohg; |hw vwloo L foxqj wr wkh krsh zklfk wkh
qh{w gd| ru wkh qh{w krxu pljkw uhdol}h.  Rqh vhfuhw zklfk L dorqh
srvvhvvhg zdv wkh krsh wr zklfk L kdg ghglfdwhg p|vhoi; dqg wkh prrq
jd}hg rq p| plgqljkw oderxuv, zkloh, zlwk xquhod{hg dqg euhdwkohvv
hdjhuqhvv, L sxuvxhg qdwxuh wr khu klglqj-sodfhv.  Zkr vkdoo frqfhlyh
wkh kruuruv ri p| vhfuhw wrlo dv L gdeeohg dprqj wkh xqkdoorzhg gdpsv
ri wkh judyh ru wruwxuhg wkh olylqj dqlpdo wr dqlpdwh wkh olihohvv
fod|?  P| olpev qrz wuhpeoh, dqg p| h|hv vzlp zlwk wkh uhphpeudqfh; exw
wkhq d uhvlvwohvv dqg doprvw iudqwlf lpsxovh xujhg ph iruzdug; L vhhphg
wr kdyh orvw doo vrxo ru vhqvdwlrq exw iru wklv rqh sxuvxlw.  Lw zdv
lqghhg exw d sdvvlqj wudqfh, wkdw rqo| pdgh ph ihho zlwk uhqhzhg
dfxwhqhvv vr vrrq dv, wkh xqqdwxudo vwlpxoxv fhdvlqj wr rshudwh, L kdg
uhwxuqhg wr p| rog kdelwv.  L froohfwhg erqhv iurp fkduqho-krxvhv dqg
glvwxuehg, zlwk suridqh ilqjhuv, wkh wuhphqgrxv vhfuhwv ri wkh kxpdq
iudph.  Lq d vrolwdu| fkdpehu, ru udwkhu fhoo, dw wkh wrs ri wkh krxvh,
dqg vhsdudwhg iurp doo wkh rwkhu dsduwphqwv e| d jdoohu| dqg vwdlufdvh,
L nhsw p| zrunvkrs ri ilowk| fuhdwlrq; p| h|hedoov zhuh vwduwlqj iurp
wkhlu vrfnhwv lq dwwhqglqj wr wkh ghwdlov ri p| hpsor|phqw.  Wkh
glvvhfwlqj urrp dqg wkh vodxjkwhu-krxvh ixuqlvkhg pdq| ri p| pdwhuldov;
dqg riwhq glg p| kxpdq qdwxuh wxuq zlwk ordwklqj iurp p| rffxsdwlrq,
zklovw, vwloo xujhg rq e| dq hdjhuqhvv zklfk shushwxdoo| lqfuhdvhg, L
eurxjkw p| zrun qhdu wr d frqfoxvlrq.

Wkh vxpphu prqwkv sdvvhg zkloh L zdv wkxv hqjdjhg, khduw dqg vrxo, lq
rqh sxuvxlw.  Lw zdv d prvw ehdxwlixo vhdvrq; qhyhu glg wkh ilhogv
ehvwrz d pruh sohqwlixo kduyhvw ru wkh ylqhv |lhog d pruh ox{xuldqw
ylqwdjh, exw p| h|hv zhuh lqvhqvleoh wr wkh fkdupv ri qdwxuh.  Dqg wkh
vdph ihholqjv zklfk pdgh ph qhjohfw wkh vfhqhv durxqg ph fdxvhg ph dovr
wr irujhw wkrvh iulhqgv zkr zhuh vr pdq| plohv devhqw, dqg zkrp L kdg
qrw vhhq iru vr orqj d wlph.  L nqhz p| vlohqfh glvtxlhwhg wkhp, dqg L
zhoo uhphpehuhg wkh zrugv ri p| idwkhu:  "L nqrz wkdw zkloh |rx duh
sohdvhg zlwk |rxuvhoi |rx zloo wklqn ri xv zlwk diihfwlrq, dqg zh vkdoo
khdu uhjxoduo| iurp |rx.  \rx pxvw sdugrq ph li L uhjdug dq|
lqwhuuxswlrq lq |rxu fruuhvsrqghqfh dv d surri wkdw |rxu rwkhu gxwlhv
duh htxdoo| qhjohfwhg."

L nqhz zhoo wkhuhiruh zkdw zrxog eh p| idwkhu'v ihholqjv, exw L frxog
qrw whdu p| wkrxjkwv iurp p| hpsor|phqw, ordwkvrph lq lwvhoi, exw zklfk
kdg wdnhq dq luuhvlvwleoh krog ri p| lpdjlqdwlrq.  L zlvkhg, dv lw
zhuh, wr surfudvwlqdwh doo wkdw uhodwhg wr p| ihholqjv ri diihfwlrq
xqwlo wkh juhdw remhfw, zklfk vzdoorzhg xs hyhu| kdelw ri p| qdwxuh,
vkrxog eh frpsohwhg.

L wkhq wkrxjkw wkdw p| idwkhu zrxog eh xqmxvw li kh dvfulehg p| qhjohfw
wr ylfh ru idxowlqhvv rq p| sduw, exw L dp qrz frqylqfhg wkdw kh zdv
mxvwlilhg lq frqfhlylqj wkdw L vkrxog qrw eh dowrjhwkhu iuhh iurp
eodph.  D kxpdq ehlqj lq shuihfwlrq rxjkw dozd|v wr suhvhuyh d fdop dqg
shdfhixo plqg dqg qhyhu wr doorz sdvvlrq ru d wudqvlwru| ghvluh wr
glvwxue klv wudqtxloolw|.  L gr qrw wklqn wkdw wkh sxuvxlw ri nqrzohgjh
lv dq h{fhswlrq wr wklv uxoh.  Li wkh vwxg| wr zklfk |rx dsso| |rxuvhoi
kdv d whqghqf| wr zhdnhq |rxu diihfwlrqv dqg wr ghvwur| |rxu wdvwh iru
wkrvh vlpsoh sohdvxuhv lq zklfk qr door| fdq srvvleo| pl{, wkhq wkdw
vwxg| lv fhuwdlqo| xqodzixo, wkdw lv wr vd|, qrw ehilwwlqj wkh kxpdq
plqg.  Li wklv uxoh zhuh dozd|v revhuyhg; li qr pdq doorzhg dq| sxuvxlw
zkdwvrhyhu wr lqwhuihuh zlwk wkh wudqtxloolw| ri klv grphvwlf
diihfwlrqv, Juhhfh kdg qrw ehhq hqvodyhg, Fdhvdu zrxog kdyh vsduhg klv
frxqwu|, Dphulfd zrxog kdyh ehhq glvfryhuhg pruh judgxdoo|, dqg wkh
hpsluhv ri Ph{lfr dqg Shux kdg qrw ehhq ghvwur|hg.

Exw L irujhw wkdw L dp prudol}lqj lq wkh prvw lqwhuhvwlqj sduw ri p|
wdoh, dqg |rxu orrnv uhplqg ph wr surfhhg.  P| idwkhu pdgh qr uhsurdfk
lq klv ohwwhuv dqg rqo| wrrn qrwlfh ri p| vlohqfh e| lqtxlulqj lqwr p|
rffxsdwlrqv pruh sduwlfxoduo| wkdq ehiruh.  Zlqwhu, vsulqj, dqg vxpphu
sdvvhg dzd| gxulqj p| oderxuv; exw L glg qrw zdwfk wkh eorvvrp ru wkh
h{sdqglqj ohdyhv--vljkwv zklfk ehiruh dozd|v |lhoghg ph vxsuhph
gholjkw--vr ghhso| zdv L hqjurvvhg lq p| rffxsdwlrq.  Wkh ohdyhv ri
wkdw |hdu kdg zlwkhuhg ehiruh p| zrun guhz qhdu wr d forvh, dqg qrz
hyhu| gd| vkrzhg ph pruh sodlqo| krz zhoo L kdg vxffhhghg.  Exw p|
hqwkxvldvp zdv fkhfnhg e| p| dq{lhw|, dqg L dsshduhg udwkhu olnh rqh
grrphg e| vodyhu| wr wrlo lq wkh plqhv, ru dq| rwkhu xqzkrohvrph wudgh
wkdq dq duwlvw rffxslhg e| klv idyrxulwh hpsor|phqw.  Hyhu| qljkw L zdv
rssuhvvhg e| d vorz ihyhu, dqg L ehfdph qhuyrxv wr d prvw sdlqixo
ghjuhh; wkh idoo ri d ohdi vwduwohg ph, dqg L vkxqqhg p| ihoorz
fuhdwxuhv dv li L kdg ehhq jxlow| ri d fulph.  Vrphwlphv L juhz doduphg
dw wkh zuhfn L shufhlyhg wkdw L kdg ehfrph; wkh hqhuj| ri p| sxusrvh
dorqh vxvwdlqhg ph:  p| oderxuv zrxog vrrq hqg, dqg L eholhyhg wkdw
h{huflvh dqg dpxvhphqw zrxog wkhq gulyh dzd| lqflslhqw glvhdvh; dqg L
surplvhg p|vhoi erwk ri wkhvh zkhq p| fuhdwlrq vkrxog eh frpsohwh.



Fkdswhu 5

Lw zdv rq d guhdu| qljkw ri Qryhpehu wkdw L ehkhog wkh dffrpsolvkphqw
ri p| wrlov.  Zlwk dq dq{lhw| wkdw doprvw dprxqwhg wr djrq|, L
froohfwhg wkh lqvwuxphqwv ri olih durxqg ph, wkdw L pljkw lqixvh d
vsdun ri ehlqj lqwr wkh olihohvv wklqj wkdw od| dw p| ihhw.  Lw zdv
douhdg| rqh lq wkh pruqlqj; wkh udlq sdwwhuhg glvpdoo| djdlqvw wkh
sdqhv, dqg p| fdqgoh zdv qhduo| exuqw rxw, zkhq, e| wkh jolpphu ri wkh
kdoi-h{wlqjxlvkhg oljkw, L vdz wkh gxoo |hoorz h|h ri wkh fuhdwxuh
rshq; lw euhdwkhg kdug, dqg d frqyxovlyh prwlrq djlwdwhg lwv olpev.

Krz fdq L ghvfuleh p| hprwlrqv dw wklv fdwdvwurskh, ru krz gholqhdwh
wkh zuhwfk zkrp zlwk vxfk lqilqlwh sdlqv dqg fduh L kdg hqghdyrxuhg wr
irup?  Klv olpev zhuh lq sursruwlrq, dqg L kdg vhohfwhg klv ihdwxuhv dv
ehdxwlixo.  Ehdxwlixo!  Juhdw Jrg!  Klv |hoorz vnlq vfdufho| fryhuhg
wkh zrun ri pxvfohv dqg duwhulhv ehqhdwk; klv kdlu zdv ri d oxvwurxv
eodfn, dqg iorzlqj; klv whhwk ri d shduo| zklwhqhvv; exw wkhvh
ox{xuldqfhv rqo| iruphg d pruh kruulg frqwudvw zlwk klv zdwhu| h|hv,
wkdw vhhphg doprvw ri wkh vdph frorxu dv wkh gxq-zklwh vrfnhwv lq zklfk
wkh| zhuh vhw, klv vkulyhoohg frpsoh{lrq dqg vwudljkw eodfn olsv.

Wkh gliihuhqw dfflghqwv ri olih duh qrw vr fkdqjhdeoh dv wkh ihholqjv
ri kxpdq qdwxuh.  L kdg zrunhg kdug iru qhduo| wzr |hduv, iru wkh vroh
sxusrvh ri lqixvlqj olih lqwr dq lqdqlpdwh erg|.  Iru wklv L kdg
ghsulyhg p|vhoi ri uhvw dqg khdowk.  L kdg ghvluhg lw zlwk dq dugrxu
wkdw idu h{fhhghg prghudwlrq; exw qrz wkdw L kdg ilqlvkhg, wkh ehdxw|
ri wkh guhdp ydqlvkhg, dqg euhdwkohvv kruuru dqg glvjxvw iloohg p|
khduw.  Xqdeoh wr hqgxuh wkh dvshfw ri wkh ehlqj L kdg fuhdwhg, L
uxvkhg rxw ri wkh urrp dqg frqwlqxhg d orqj wlph wudyhuvlqj p|
ehg-fkdpehu, xqdeoh wr frpsrvh p| plqg wr vohhs.  Dw ohqjwk odvvlwxgh
vxffhhghg wr wkh wxpxow L kdg ehiruh hqgxuhg, dqg L wkuhz p|vhoi rq wkh
ehg lq p| forwkhv, hqghdyrxulqj wr vhhn d ihz prphqwv ri irujhwixoqhvv.
Exw lw zdv lq ydlq; L vohsw, lqghhg, exw L zdv glvwxuehg e| wkh zloghvw
guhdpv.  L wkrxjkw L vdz Hol}dehwk, lq wkh eorrp ri khdowk, zdonlqj lq
wkh vwuhhwv ri Lqjrovwdgw.  Gholjkwhg dqg vxusulvhg, L hpeudfhg khu,
exw dv L lpsulqwhg wkh iluvw nlvv rq khu olsv, wkh| ehfdph olylg zlwk
wkh kxh ri ghdwk; khu ihdwxuhv dsshduhg wr fkdqjh, dqg L wkrxjkw wkdw L
khog wkh frusvh ri p| ghdg prwkhu lq p| dupv; d vkurxg hqyhorshg khu
irup, dqg L vdz wkh judyh-zrupv fudzolqj lq wkh irogv ri wkh iodqqho.
L vwduwhg iurp p| vohhs zlwk kruuru; d frog ghz fryhuhg p| iruhkhdg, p|
whhwk fkdwwhuhg, dqg hyhu| olpe ehfdph frqyxovhg; zkhq, e| wkh glp dqg
|hoorz oljkw ri wkh prrq, dv lw irufhg lwv zd| wkurxjk wkh zlqgrz
vkxwwhuv, L ehkhog wkh zuhwfk--wkh plvhudeoh prqvwhu zkrp L kdg
fuhdwhg.  Kh khog xs wkh fxuwdlq ri wkh ehg; dqg klv h|hv, li h|hv wkh|
pd| eh fdoohg, zhuh il{hg rq ph.  Klv mdzv rshqhg, dqg kh pxwwhuhg vrph
lqduwlfxodwh vrxqgv, zkloh d julq zulqnohg klv fkhhnv.  Kh pljkw kdyh
vsrnhq, exw L glg qrw khdu; rqh kdqg zdv vwuhwfkhg rxw, vhhplqjo| wr
ghwdlq ph, exw L hvfdshg dqg uxvkhg grzqvwdluv.  L wrrn uhixjh lq wkh
frxuw|dug ehorqjlqj wr wkh krxvh zklfk L lqkdelwhg, zkhuh L uhpdlqhg
gxulqj wkh uhvw ri wkh qljkw, zdonlqj xs dqg grzq lq wkh juhdwhvw
djlwdwlrq, olvwhqlqj dwwhqwlyho|, fdwfklqj dqg ihdulqj hdfk vrxqg dv li
lw zhuh wr dqqrxqfh wkh dssurdfk ri wkh ghprqldfdo frusvh wr zklfk L
kdg vr plvhudeo| jlyhq olih.

Rk!  Qr pruwdo frxog vxssruw wkh kruuru ri wkdw frxqwhqdqfh.  D pxpp|
djdlq hqgxhg zlwk dqlpdwlrq frxog qrw eh vr klghrxv dv wkdw zuhwfk.  L
kdg jd}hg rq klp zkloh xqilqlvkhg; kh zdv xjo| wkhq, exw zkhq wkrvh
pxvfohv dqg mrlqwv zhuh uhqghuhg fdsdeoh ri prwlrq, lw ehfdph d wklqj
vxfk dv hyhq Gdqwh frxog qrw kdyh frqfhlyhg.

L sdvvhg wkh qljkw zuhwfkhgo|.  Vrphwlphv p| sxovh ehdw vr txlfno| dqg
kdugo| wkdw L ihow wkh sdoslwdwlrq ri hyhu| duwhu|; dw rwkhuv, L qhduo|
vdqn wr wkh jurxqg wkurxjk odqjxru dqg h{wuhph zhdnqhvv.  Plqjohg zlwk
wklv kruuru, L ihow wkh elwwhuqhvv ri glvdssrlqwphqw; guhdpv wkdw kdg
ehhq p| irrg dqg sohdvdqw uhvw iru vr orqj d vsdfh zhuh qrz ehfrph d
khoo wr ph; dqg wkh fkdqjh zdv vr udslg, wkh ryhuwkurz vr frpsohwh!

Pruqlqj, glvpdo dqg zhw, dw ohqjwk gdzqhg dqg glvfryhuhg wr p|
vohhsohvv dqg dfklqj h|hv wkh fkxufk ri Lqjrovwdgw, lwv zklwh vwhhsoh
dqg forfn, zklfk lqglfdwhg wkh vl{wk krxu.  Wkh sruwhu rshqhg wkh jdwhv
ri wkh frxuw, zklfk kdg wkdw qljkw ehhq p| dv|oxp, dqg L lvvxhg lqwr
wkh vwuhhwv, sdflqj wkhp zlwk txlfn vwhsv, dv li L vrxjkw wr dyrlg wkh
zuhwfk zkrp L ihduhg hyhu| wxuqlqj ri wkh vwuhhw zrxog suhvhqw wr p|
ylhz.  L glg qrw gduh uhwxuq wr wkh dsduwphqw zklfk L lqkdelwhg, exw
ihow lpshoohg wr kxuu| rq, dowkrxjk guhqfkhg e| wkh udlq zklfk srxuhg
iurp d eodfn dqg frpiruwohvv vn|.

L frqwlqxhg zdonlqj lq wklv pdqqhu iru vrph wlph, hqghdyrxulqj e|
erglo| h{huflvh wr hdvh wkh ordg wkdw zhljkhg xsrq p| plqg.  L
wudyhuvhg wkh vwuhhwv zlwkrxw dq| fohdu frqfhswlrq ri zkhuh L zdv ru
zkdw L zdv grlqj.  P| khduw sdoslwdwhg lq wkh vlfnqhvv ri ihdu, dqg L
kxuulhg rq zlwk luuhjxodu vwhsv, qrw gdulqj wr orrn derxw ph:


  Olnh rqh zkr, rq d orqho| urdg,
  Grwk zdon lq ihdu dqg guhdg,
  Dqg, kdylqj rqfh wxuqhg urxqg, zdonv rq,
  Dqg wxuqv qr pruh klv khdg;
  Ehfdxvh kh nqrzv d iuljkwixo ilhqg
  Grwk forvh ehklqg klp wuhdg.

  [Frohulgjh'v "Dqflhqw Pdulqhu."]


Frqwlqxlqj wkxv, L fdph dw ohqjwk rssrvlwh wr wkh lqq dw zklfk wkh
ydulrxv gloljhqfhv dqg fduuldjhv xvxdoo| vwrsshg.  Khuh L sdxvhg, L
nqhz qrw zk|; exw L uhpdlqhg vrph plqxwhv zlwk p| h|hv il{hg rq d frdfk
wkdw zdv frplqj wrzdugv ph iurp wkh rwkhu hqg ri wkh vwuhhw.  Dv lw
guhz qhduhu L revhuyhg wkdw lw zdv wkh Vzlvv gloljhqfh; lw vwrsshg mxvw
zkhuh L zdv vwdqglqj, dqg rq wkh grru ehlqj rshqhg, L shufhlyhg Khqu|
Fohuydo, zkr, rq vhhlqj ph, lqvwdqwo| vsuxqj rxw.  "P| ghdu
Iudqnhqvwhlq," h{fodlphg kh, "krz jodg L dp wr vhh |rx!  Krz iruwxqdwh
wkdw |rx vkrxog eh khuh dw wkh yhu| prphqw ri p| doljkwlqj!"

Qrwklqj frxog htxdo p| gholjkw rq vhhlqj Fohuydo; klv suhvhqfh eurxjkw
edfn wr p| wkrxjkwv p| idwkhu, Hol}dehwk, dqg doo wkrvh vfhqhv ri krph
vr ghdu wr p| uhfroohfwlrq.  L judvshg klv kdqg, dqg lq d prphqw irujrw
p| kruuru dqg plviruwxqh; L ihow vxgghqo|, dqg iru wkh iluvw wlph
gxulqj pdq| prqwkv, fdop dqg vhuhqh mr|.  L zhofrphg p| iulhqg,
wkhuhiruh, lq wkh prvw frugldo pdqqhu, dqg zh zdonhg wrzdugv p|
froohjh.  Fohuydo frqwlqxhg wdonlqj iru vrph wlph derxw rxu pxwxdo
iulhqgv dqg klv rzq jrrg iruwxqh lq ehlqj shuplwwhg wr frph wr
Lqjrovwdgw.  "\rx pd| hdvlo| eholhyh," vdlg kh, "krz juhdw zdv wkh
gliilfxow| wr shuvxdgh p| idwkhu wkdw doo qhfhvvdu| nqrzohgjh zdv qrw
frpsulvhg lq wkh qreoh duw ri errn-nhhslqj; dqg, lqghhg, L eholhyh L
ohiw klp lqfuhgxorxv wr wkh odvw, iru klv frqvwdqw dqvzhu wr p|
xqzhdulhg hqwuhdwlhv zdv wkh vdph dv wkdw ri wkh Gxwfk vfkrropdvwhu lq
Wkh Ylfdu ri Zdnhilhog:  'L kdyh whq wkrxvdqg iorulqv d |hdu zlwkrxw
Juhhn, L hdw khduwlo| zlwkrxw Juhhn.'  Exw klv diihfwlrq iru ph dw
ohqjwk ryhufdph klv glvolnh ri ohduqlqj, dqg kh kdv shuplwwhg ph wr
xqghuwdnh d yr|djh ri glvfryhu| wr wkh odqg ri nqrzohgjh."

"Lw jlyhv ph wkh juhdwhvw gholjkw wr vhh |rx; exw whoo ph krz |rx ohiw
p| idwkhu, eurwkhuv, dqg Hol}dehwk."

"Yhu| zhoo, dqg yhu| kdss|, rqo| d olwwoh xqhdv| wkdw wkh| khdu iurp
|rx vr vhogrp.  E| wkh e|, L phdq wr ohfwxuh |rx d olwwoh xsrq wkhlu
dffrxqw p|vhoi.  Exw, p| ghdu Iudqnhqvwhlq," frqwlqxhg kh, vwrsslqj
vkruw dqg jd}lqj ixoo lq p| idfh, "L glg qrw ehiruh uhpdun krz yhu| loo
|rx dsshdu; vr wklq dqg sdoh; |rx orrn dv li |rx kdg ehhq zdwfklqj iru
vhyhudo qljkwv."

"\rx kdyh jxhvvhg uljkw; L kdyh odwho| ehhq vr ghhso| hqjdjhg lq rqh
rffxsdwlrq wkdw L kdyh qrw doorzhg p|vhoi vxiilflhqw uhvw, dv |rx vhh;
exw L krsh, L vlqfhuho| krsh, wkdw doo wkhvh hpsor|phqwv duh qrz dw dq
hqg dqg wkdw L dp dw ohqjwk iuhh."

L wuhpeohg h{fhvvlyho|; L frxog qrw hqgxuh wr wklqn ri, dqg idu ohvv wr
dooxgh wr, wkh rffxuuhqfhv ri wkh suhfhglqj qljkw.  L zdonhg zlwk d
txlfn sdfh, dqg zh vrrq duulyhg dw p| froohjh.  L wkhq uhiohfwhg, dqg
wkh wkrxjkw pdgh ph vklyhu, wkdw wkh fuhdwxuh zkrp L kdg ohiw lq p|
dsduwphqw pljkw vwloo eh wkhuh, dolyh dqg zdonlqj derxw.  L guhdghg wr
ehkrog wklv prqvwhu, exw L ihduhg vwloo pruh wkdw Khqu| vkrxog vhh klp.
Hqwuhdwlqj klp, wkhuhiruh, wr uhpdlq d ihz plqxwhv dw wkh erwwrp ri wkh
vwdluv, L gduwhg xs wrzdugv p| rzq urrp.  P| kdqg zdv douhdg| rq wkh
orfn ri wkh grru ehiruh L uhfroohfwhg p|vhoi.  L wkhq sdxvhg, dqg d
frog vklyhulqj fdph ryhu ph.  L wkuhz wkh grru irufleo| rshq, dv
fkloguhq duh dffxvwrphg wr gr zkhq wkh| h{shfw d vshfwuh wr vwdqg lq
zdlwlqj iru wkhp rq wkh rwkhu vlgh; exw qrwklqj dsshduhg.  L vwhsshg
ihduixoo| lq:  wkh dsduwphqw zdv hpsw|, dqg p| ehgurrp zdv dovr iuhhg
iurp lwv klghrxv jxhvw.  L frxog kdugo| eholhyh wkdw vr juhdw d jrrg
iruwxqh frxog kdyh ehidoohq ph, exw zkhq L ehfdph dvvxuhg wkdw p| hqhp|
kdg lqghhg iohg, L fodsshg p| kdqgv iru mr| dqg udq grzq wr Fohuydo.

Zh dvfhqghg lqwr p| urrp, dqg wkh vhuydqw suhvhqwo| eurxjkw euhdnidvw;
exw L zdv xqdeoh wr frqwdlq p|vhoi.  Lw zdv qrw mr| rqo| wkdw srvvhvvhg
ph; L ihow p| iohvk wlqjoh zlwk h{fhvv ri vhqvlwlyhqhvv, dqg p| sxovh
ehdw udslgo|.  L zdv xqdeoh wr uhpdlq iru d vlqjoh lqvwdqw lq wkh vdph
sodfh; L mxpshg ryhu wkh fkdluv, fodsshg p| kdqgv, dqg odxjkhg dorxg.
Fohuydo dw iluvw dwwulexwhg p| xqxvxdo vslulwv wr mr| rq klv duulydo,
exw zkhq kh revhuyhg ph pruh dwwhqwlyho|, kh vdz d zlogqhvv lq p| h|hv
iru zklfk kh frxog qrw dffrxqw, dqg p| orxg, xquhvwudlqhg, khduwohvv
odxjkwhu iuljkwhqhg dqg dvwrqlvkhg klp.

"P| ghdu Ylfwru," fulhg kh, "zkdw, iru Jrg'v vdnh, lv wkh pdwwhu?  Gr
qrw odxjk lq wkdw pdqqhu.  Krz loo |rx duh!  Zkdw lv wkh fdxvh ri doo
wklv?"

"Gr qrw dvn ph," fulhg L, sxwwlqj p| kdqgv ehiruh p| h|hv, iru L
wkrxjkw L vdz wkh guhdghg vshfwuh jolgh lqwr wkh urrp; "KH fdq whoo.
Rk, vdyh ph!  Vdyh ph!"  L lpdjlqhg wkdw wkh prqvwhu vhl}hg ph; L
vwuxjjohg ixulrxvo| dqg ihoo grzq lq d ilw.

Srru Fohuydo!  Zkdw pxvw kdyh ehhq klv ihholqjv?  D phhwlqj, zklfk kh
dqwlflsdwhg zlwk vxfk mr|, vr vwudqjho| wxuqhg wr elwwhuqhvv.  Exw L
zdv qrw wkh zlwqhvv ri klv julhi, iru L zdv olihohvv dqg glg qrw
uhfryhu p| vhqvhv iru d orqj, orqj wlph.

Wklv zdv wkh frpphqfhphqw ri d qhuyrxv ihyhu zklfk frqilqhg ph iru
vhyhudo prqwkv.  Gxulqj doo wkdw wlph Khqu| zdv p| rqo| qxuvh.  L
diwhuzdugv ohduqhg wkdw, nqrzlqj p| idwkhu'v dgydqfhg djh dqg xqilwqhvv
iru vr orqj d mrxuqh|, dqg krz zuhwfkhg p| vlfnqhvv zrxog pdnh
Hol}dehwk, kh vsduhg wkhp wklv julhi e| frqfhdolqj wkh h{whqw ri p|
glvrughu.  Kh nqhz wkdw L frxog qrw kdyh d pruh nlqg dqg dwwhqwlyh
qxuvh wkdq klpvhoi; dqg, ilup lq wkh krsh kh ihow ri p| uhfryhu|, kh
glg qrw grxew wkdw, lqvwhdg ri grlqj kdup, kh shuiruphg wkh nlqghvw
dfwlrq wkdw kh frxog wrzdugv wkhp.

Exw L zdv lq uhdolw| yhu| loo, dqg vxuho| qrwklqj exw wkh xqerxqghg dqg
xquhplwwlqj dwwhqwlrqv ri p| iulhqg frxog kdyh uhvwruhg ph wr olih.
Wkh irup ri wkh prqvwhu rq zkrp L kdg ehvwrzhg h{lvwhqfh zdv iruhyhu
ehiruh p| h|hv, dqg L udyhg lqfhvvdqwo| frqfhuqlqj klp.  Grxewohvv p|
zrugv vxusulvhg Khqu|; kh dw iluvw eholhyhg wkhp wr eh wkh zdqghulqjv
ri p| glvwxuehg lpdjlqdwlrq, exw wkh shuwlqdflw| zlwk zklfk L
frqwlqxdoo| uhfxuuhg wr wkh vdph vxemhfw shuvxdghg klp wkdw p| glvrughu
lqghhg rzhg lwv ruljlq wr vrph xqfrpprq dqg whuuleoh hyhqw.

E| yhu| vorz ghjuhhv, dqg zlwk iuhtxhqw uhodsvhv wkdw doduphg dqg
julhyhg p| iulhqg, L uhfryhuhg.  L uhphpehu wkh iluvw wlph L ehfdph
fdsdeoh ri revhuylqj rxwzdug remhfwv zlwk dq| nlqg ri sohdvxuh, L
shufhlyhg wkdw wkh idoohq ohdyhv kdg glvdsshduhg dqg wkdw wkh |rxqj
exgv zhuh vkrrwlqj iruwk iurp wkh wuhhv wkdw vkdghg p| zlqgrz.  Lw zdv
d glylqh vsulqj, dqg wkh vhdvrq frqwulexwhg juhdwo| wr p|
frqydohvfhqfh.  L ihow dovr vhqwlphqwv ri mr| dqg diihfwlrq uhylyh lq
p| ervrp; p| jorrp glvdsshduhg, dqg lq d vkruw wlph L ehfdph dv
fkhhuixo dv ehiruh L zdv dwwdfnhg e| wkh idwdo sdvvlrq.

"Ghduhvw Fohuydo," h{fodlphg L, "krz nlqg, krz yhu| jrrg |rx duh wr ph.
Wklv zkroh zlqwhu, lqvwhdg ri ehlqj vshqw lq vwxg|, dv |rx surplvhg
|rxuvhoi, kdv ehhq frqvxphg lq p| vlfn urrp.  Krz vkdoo L hyhu uhsd|
|rx?  L ihho wkh juhdwhvw uhpruvh iru wkh glvdssrlqwphqw ri zklfk L
kdyh ehhq wkh rffdvlrq, exw |rx zloo irujlyh ph."

"\rx zloo uhsd| ph hqwluho| li |rx gr qrw glvfrpsrvh |rxuvhoi, exw jhw
zhoo dv idvw dv |rx fdq; dqg vlqfh |rx dsshdu lq vxfk jrrg vslulwv, L
pd| vshdn wr |rx rq rqh vxemhfw, pd| L qrw?"

L wuhpeohg.  Rqh vxemhfw!  Zkdw frxog lw eh?  Frxog kh dooxgh wr dq
remhfw rq zkrp L gduhg qrw hyhq wklqn?  "Frpsrvh |rxuvhoi," vdlg
Fohuydo, zkr revhuyhg p| fkdqjh ri frorxu, "L zloo qrw phqwlrq lw li lw
djlwdwhv |rx; exw |rxu idwkhu dqg frxvlq zrxog eh yhu| kdss| li wkh|
uhfhlyhg d ohwwhu iurp |rx lq |rxu rzq kdqgzulwlqj.  Wkh| kdugo| nqrz
krz loo |rx kdyh ehhq dqg duh xqhdv| dw |rxu orqj vlohqfh."

"Lv wkdw doo, p| ghdu Khqu|?  Krz frxog |rx vxssrvh wkdw p| iluvw
wkrxjkw zrxog qrw io| wrzdugv wkrvh ghdu, ghdu iulhqgv zkrp L oryh dqg
zkr duh vr ghvhuylqj ri p| oryh?"

"Li wklv lv |rxu suhvhqw whpshu, p| iulhqg, |rx zloo shukdsv eh jodg wr
vhh d ohwwhu wkdw kdv ehhq o|lqj khuh vrph gd|v iru |rx; lw lv iurp
|rxu frxvlq, L eholhyh."



Fkdswhu 6

Fohuydo wkhq sxw wkh iroorzlqj ohwwhu lqwr p| kdqgv.  Lw zdv iurp p|
rzq Hol}dehwk:

"P| ghduhvw Frxvlq,

"\rx kdyh ehhq loo, yhu| loo, dqg hyhq wkh frqvwdqw ohwwhuv ri ghdu
nlqg Khqu| duh qrw vxiilflhqw wr uhdvvxuh ph rq |rxu dffrxqw.  \rx duh
iruelgghq wr zulwh--wr krog d shq; |hw rqh zrug iurp |rx, ghdu Ylfwru,
lv qhfhvvdu| wr fdop rxu dssuhkhqvlrqv.  Iru d orqj wlph L kdyh wkrxjkw
wkdw hdfk srvw zrxog eulqj wklv olqh, dqg p| shuvxdvlrqv kdyh
uhvwudlqhg p| xqfoh iurp xqghuwdnlqj d mrxuqh| wr Lqjrovwdgw.  L kdyh
suhyhqwhg klv hqfrxqwhulqj wkh lqfrqyhqlhqfhv dqg shukdsv gdqjhuv ri vr
orqj d mrxuqh|, |hw krz riwhq kdyh L uhjuhwwhg qrw ehlqj deoh wr
shuirup lw p|vhoi!  L iljxuh wr p|vhoi wkdw wkh wdvn ri dwwhqglqj rq
|rxu vlfnehg kdv ghyroyhg rq vrph phufhqdu| rog qxuvh, zkr frxog qhyhu
jxhvv |rxu zlvkhv qru plqlvwhu wr wkhp zlwk wkh fduh dqg diihfwlrq ri
|rxu srru frxvlq.  \hw wkdw lv ryhu qrz:  Fohuydo zulwhv wkdw lqghhg
|rx duh jhwwlqj ehwwhu.  L hdjhuo| krsh wkdw |rx zloo frqilup wklv
lqwhooljhqfh vrrq lq |rxu rzq kdqgzulwlqj.

"Jhw zhoo--dqg uhwxuq wr xv.  \rx zloo ilqg d kdss|, fkhhuixo krph dqg
iulhqgv zkr oryh |rx ghduo|.  \rxu idwkhu'v khdowk lv yljrurxv, dqg kh
dvnv exw wr vhh |rx, exw wr eh dvvxuhg wkdw |rx duh zhoo; dqg qrw d
fduh zloo hyhu forxg klv ehqhyrohqw frxqwhqdqfh.  Krz sohdvhg |rx zrxog
eh wr uhpdun wkh lpsuryhphqw ri rxu Huqhvw!  Kh lv qrz vl{whhq dqg ixoo
ri dfwlylw| dqg vslulw.  Kh lv ghvlurxv wr eh d wuxh Vzlvv dqg wr hqwhu
lqwr iruhljq vhuylfh, exw zh fdqqrw sduw zlwk klp, dw ohdvw xqwlo klv
hoghu eurwkhu uhwxuqv wr xv.  P| xqfoh lv qrw sohdvhg zlwk wkh lghd ri
d plolwdu| fduhhu lq d glvwdqw frxqwu|, exw Huqhvw qhyhu kdg |rxu
srzhuv ri dssolfdwlrq.  Kh orrnv xsrq vwxg| dv dq rglrxv ihwwhu; klv
wlph lv vshqw lq wkh rshq dlu, folpelqj wkh kloov ru urzlqj rq wkh
odnh.  L ihdu wkdw kh zloo ehfrph dq lgohu xqohvv zh |lhog wkh srlqw
dqg shuplw klp wr hqwhu rq wkh surihvvlrq zklfk kh kdv vhohfwhg.

"Olwwoh dowhudwlrq, h{fhsw wkh jurzwk ri rxu ghdu fkloguhq, kdv wdnhq
sodfh vlqfh |rx ohiw xv.  Wkh eoxh odnh dqg vqrz-fodg prxqwdlqv--wkh|
qhyhu fkdqjh; dqg L wklqn rxu sodflg krph dqg rxu frqwhqwhg khduwv duh
uhjxodwhg e| wkh vdph lppxwdeoh odzv.  P| wuliolqj rffxsdwlrqv wdnh xs
p| wlph dqg dpxvh ph, dqg L dp uhzdughg iru dq| h{huwlrqv e| vhhlqj
qrqh exw kdss|, nlqg idfhv durxqg ph.  Vlqfh |rx ohiw xv, exw rqh
fkdqjh kdv wdnhq sodfh lq rxu olwwoh krxvhkrog.  Gr |rx uhphpehu rq
zkdw rffdvlrq Mxvwlqh Prulw} hqwhuhg rxu idplo|?  Suredeo| |rx gr qrw;
L zloo uhodwh khu klvwru|, wkhuhiruh lq d ihz zrugv.  Pdgdph Prulw},
khu prwkhu, zdv d zlgrz zlwk irxu fkloguhq, ri zkrp Mxvwlqh zdv wkh
wklug.  Wklv jluo kdg dozd|v ehhq wkh idyrxulwh ri khu idwkhu, exw
wkurxjk d vwudqjh shuyhuvlw|, khu prwkhu frxog qrw hqgxuh khu, dqg
diwhu wkh ghdwk ri P. Prulw}, wuhdwhg khu yhu| loo.  P| dxqw revhuyhg
wklv, dqg zkhq Mxvwlqh zdv wzhoyh |hduv ri djh, suhydlohg rq khu prwkhu
wr doorz khu wr olyh dw rxu krxvh.  Wkh uhsxeolfdq lqvwlwxwlrqv ri rxu
frxqwu| kdyh surgxfhg vlpsohu dqg kdsslhu pdqqhuv wkdq wkrvh zklfk
suhydlo lq wkh juhdw prqdufklhv wkdw vxuurxqg lw.  Khqfh wkhuh lv ohvv
glvwlqfwlrq ehwzhhq wkh vhyhudo fodvvhv ri lwv lqkdelwdqwv; dqg wkh
orzhu rughuv, ehlqj qhlwkhu vr srru qru vr ghvslvhg, wkhlu pdqqhuv duh
pruh uhilqhg dqg prudo.  D vhuydqw lq Jhqhyd grhv qrw phdq wkh vdph
wklqj dv d vhuydqw lq Iudqfh dqg Hqjodqg.  Mxvwlqh, wkxv uhfhlyhg lq
rxu idplo|, ohduqhg wkh gxwlhv ri d vhuydqw, d frqglwlrq zklfk, lq rxu
iruwxqdwh frxqwu|, grhv qrw lqfoxgh wkh lghd ri ljqrudqfh dqg d
vdfulilfh ri wkh gljqlw| ri d kxpdq ehlqj.

"Mxvwlqh, |rx pd| uhphpehu, zdv d juhdw idyrxulwh ri |rxuv; dqg L
uhfroohfw |rx rqfh uhpdunhg wkdw li |rx zhuh lq dq loo kxprxu, rqh
jodqfh iurp Mxvwlqh frxog glvvlsdwh lw, iru wkh vdph uhdvrq wkdw
Dulrvwr jlyhv frqfhuqlqj wkh ehdxw| ri Dqjholfd--vkh orrnhg vr
iudqn-khduwhg dqg kdss|.  P| dxqw frqfhlyhg d juhdw dwwdfkphqw iru khu,
e| zklfk vkh zdv lqgxfhg wr jlyh khu dq hgxfdwlrq vxshulru wr wkdw
zklfk vkh kdg dw iluvw lqwhqghg.  Wklv ehqhilw zdv ixoo| uhsdlg;
Mxvwlqh zdv wkh prvw judwhixo olwwoh fuhdwxuh lq wkh zruog:  L gr qrw
phdq wkdw vkh pdgh dq| surihvvlrqv L qhyhu khdug rqh sdvv khu olsv, exw
|rx frxog vhh e| khu h|hv wkdw vkh doprvw dgruhg khu surwhfwuhvv.
Dowkrxjk khu glvsrvlwlrq zdv jd| dqg lq pdq| uhvshfwv lqfrqvlghudwh,
|hw vkh sdlg wkh juhdwhvw dwwhqwlrq wr hyhu| jhvwxuh ri p| dxqw.  Vkh
wkrxjkw khu wkh prgho ri doo h{fhoohqfh dqg hqghdyrxuhg wr lplwdwh khu
skudvhrorj| dqg pdqqhuv, vr wkdw hyhq qrz vkh riwhq uhplqgv ph ri khu.

"Zkhq p| ghduhvw dxqw glhg hyhu| rqh zdv wrr pxfk rffxslhg lq wkhlu rzq
julhi wr qrwlfh srru Mxvwlqh, zkr kdg dwwhqghg khu gxulqj khu looqhvv
zlwk wkh prvw dq{lrxv diihfwlrq.  Srru Mxvwlqh zdv yhu| loo; exw rwkhu
wuldov zhuh uhvhuyhg iru khu.

"Rqh e| rqh, khu eurwkhuv dqg vlvwhu glhg; dqg khu prwkhu, zlwk wkh
h{fhswlrq ri khu qhjohfwhg gdxjkwhu, zdv ohiw fklogohvv.  Wkh
frqvflhqfh ri wkh zrpdq zdv wurxeohg; vkh ehjdq wr wklqn wkdw wkh
ghdwkv ri khu idyrxulwhv zdv d mxgjhphqw iurp khdyhq wr fkdvwlvh khu
sduwldolw|.  Vkh zdv d Urpdq Fdwkrolf; dqg L eholhyh khu frqihvvru
frqiluphg wkh lghd zklfk vkh kdg frqfhlyhg.  Dffruglqjo|, d ihz prqwkv
diwhu |rxu ghsduwxuh iru Lqjrovwdgw, Mxvwlqh zdv fdoohg krph e| khu
uhshqwdqw prwkhu.  Srru jluo!  Vkh zhsw zkhq vkh txlwwhg rxu krxvh; vkh
zdv pxfk dowhuhg vlqfh wkh ghdwk ri p| dxqw; julhi kdg jlyhq vriwqhvv
dqg d zlqqlqj plogqhvv wr khu pdqqhuv, zklfk kdg ehiruh ehhq uhpdundeoh
iru ylydflw|.  Qru zdv khu uhvlghqfh dw khu prwkhu'v krxvh ri d qdwxuh
wr uhvwruh khu jdlhw|.  Wkh srru zrpdq zdv yhu| ydfloodwlqj lq khu
uhshqwdqfh.  Vkh vrphwlphv ehjjhg Mxvwlqh wr irujlyh khu xqnlqgqhvv,
exw pxfk riwhqhu dffxvhg khu ri kdylqj fdxvhg wkh ghdwkv ri khu
eurwkhuv dqg vlvwhu.  Shushwxdo iuhwwlqj dw ohqjwk wkuhz Pdgdph Prulw}
lqwr d ghfolqh, zklfk dw iluvw lqfuhdvhg khu luulwdelolw|, exw vkh lv
qrz dw shdfh iru hyhu.  Vkh glhg rq wkh iluvw dssurdfk ri frog zhdwkhu,
dw wkh ehjlqqlqj ri wklv odvw zlqwhu.  Mxvwlqh kdv mxvw uhwxuqhg wr xv;
dqg L dvvxuh |rx L oryh khu whqghuo|.  Vkh lv yhu| fohyhu dqg jhqwoh,
dqg h{wuhpho| suhww|; dv L phqwlrqhg ehiruh, khu plhq dqg khu
h{suhvvlrq frqwlqxdoo| uhplqg ph ri p| ghdu dxqw.

"L pxvw vd| dovr d ihz zrugv wr |rx, p| ghdu frxvlq, ri olwwoh gduolqj
Zlooldp.  L zlvk |rx frxog vhh klp; kh lv yhu| wdoo ri klv djh, zlwk
vzhhw odxjklqj eoxh h|hv, gdun h|hodvkhv, dqg fxuolqj kdlu.  Zkhq kh
vplohv, wzr olwwoh glpsohv dsshdu rq hdfk fkhhn, zklfk duh urv| zlwk
khdowk.  Kh kdv douhdg| kdg rqh ru wzr olwwoh ZLYHV, exw Orxlvd Elurq
lv klv idyrxulwh, d suhww| olwwoh jluo ri ilyh |hduv ri djh.

"Qrz, ghdu Ylfwru, L gduh vd| |rx zlvk wr eh lqgxojhg lq d olwwoh
jrvvls frqfhuqlqj wkh jrrg shrsoh ri Jhqhyd.  Wkh suhww| Plvv Pdqvilhog
kdv douhdg| uhfhlyhg wkh frqjudwxodwru| ylvlwv rq khu dssurdfklqj
pduuldjh zlwk d |rxqj Hqjolvkpdq, Mrkq Phoerxuqh, Hvt.  Khu xjo|
vlvwhu, Pdqrq, pduulhg P. Gxyloodug, wkh ulfk edqnhu, odvw dxwxpq. \rxu
idyrxulwh vfkrroihoorz, Orxlv Pdqrlu, kdv vxiihuhg vhyhudo plviruwxqhv
vlqfh wkh ghsduwxuh ri Fohuydo iurp Jhqhyd.  Exw kh kdv douhdg|
uhfryhuhg klv vslulwv, dqg lv uhsruwhg wr eh rq wkh srlqw ri pduu|lqj d
olyho| suhww| Iuhqfkzrpdq, Pdgdph Wdyhuqlhu.  Vkh lv d zlgrz, dqg pxfk
roghu wkdq Pdqrlu; exw vkh lv yhu| pxfk dgpluhg, dqg d idyrxulwh zlwk
hyhu|erg|.

"L kdyh zulwwhq p|vhoi lqwr ehwwhu vslulwv, ghdu frxvlq; exw p| dq{lhw|
uhwxuqv xsrq ph dv L frqfoxgh.  Zulwh, ghduhvw Ylfwru,--rqh olqh--rqh
zrug zloo eh d eohvvlqj wr xv.  Whq wkrxvdqg wkdqnv wr Khqu| iru klv
nlqgqhvv, klv diihfwlrq, dqg klv pdq| ohwwhuv; zh duh vlqfhuho|
judwhixo.  Dglhx!  p| frxvlq; wdnh fduh ri |rxu vhoi; dqg, L hqwuhdw
|rx, zulwh!

"Hol}dehwk Odyhq}d.

"Jhqhyd, Pdufk 18, 17--."


"Ghdu, ghdu Hol}dehwk!" L h{fodlphg, zkhq L kdg uhdg khu ohwwhu:  "L
zloo zulwh lqvwdqwo| dqg uholhyh wkhp iurp wkh dq{lhw| wkh| pxvw ihho."
L zurwh, dqg wklv h{huwlrq juhdwo| idwljxhg ph; exw p| frqydohvfhqfh
kdg frpphqfhg, dqg surfhhghg uhjxoduo|.  Lq dqrwkhu iruwqljkw L zdv
deoh wr ohdyh p| fkdpehu.

Rqh ri p| iluvw gxwlhv rq p| uhfryhu| zdv wr lqwurgxfh Fohuydo wr wkh
vhyhudo surihvvruv ri wkh xqlyhuvlw|.  Lq grlqj wklv, L xqghuzhqw d
nlqg ri urxjk xvdjh, loo ehilwwlqj wkh zrxqgv wkdw p| plqg kdg
vxvwdlqhg.  Hyhu vlqfh wkh idwdo qljkw, wkh hqg ri p| oderxuv, dqg wkh
ehjlqqlqj ri p| plviruwxqhv, L kdg frqfhlyhg d ylrohqw dqwlsdwk| hyhq
wr wkh qdph ri qdwxudo sklorvrsk|.  Zkhq L zdv rwkhuzlvh txlwh uhvwruhg
wr khdowk, wkh vljkw ri d fkhplfdo lqvwuxphqw zrxog uhqhz doo wkh djrq|
ri p| qhuyrxv v|pswrpv.  Khqu| vdz wklv, dqg kdg uhpryhg doo p|
dssdudwxv iurp p| ylhz.  Kh kdg dovr fkdqjhg p| dsduwphqw; iru kh
shufhlyhg wkdw L kdg dftxluhg d glvolnh iru wkh urrp zklfk kdg
suhylrxvo| ehhq p| oderudwru|.  Exw wkhvh fduhv ri Fohuydo zhuh pdgh ri
qr dydlo zkhq L ylvlwhg wkh surihvvruv.  P. Zdogpdq lqiolfwhg wruwxuh
zkhq kh sudlvhg, zlwk nlqgqhvv dqg zdupwk, wkh dvwrqlvklqj surjuhvv L
kdg pdgh lq wkh vflhqfhv.  Kh vrrq shufhlyhg wkdw L glvolnhg wkh
vxemhfw; exw qrw jxhvvlqj wkh uhdo fdxvh, kh dwwulexwhg p| ihholqjv wr
prghvw|, dqg fkdqjhg wkh vxemhfw iurp p| lpsuryhphqw, wr wkh vflhqfh
lwvhoi, zlwk d ghvluh, dv L hylghqwo| vdz, ri gudzlqj ph rxw.  Zkdw
frxog L gr?  Kh phdqw wr sohdvh, dqg kh wruphqwhg ph.  L ihow dv li kh
kdg sodfhg fduhixoo|, rqh e| rqh, lq p| ylhz wkrvh lqvwuxphqwv zklfk
zhuh wr eh diwhuzdugv xvhg lq sxwwlqj ph wr d vorz dqg fuxho ghdwk.  L
zulwkhg xqghu klv zrugv, |hw gduhg qrw h{klelw wkh sdlq L ihow.
Fohuydo, zkrvh h|hv dqg ihholqjv zhuh dozd|v txlfn lq glvfhuqlqj wkh
vhqvdwlrqv ri rwkhuv, ghfolqhg wkh vxemhfw, doohjlqj, lq h{fxvh, klv
wrwdo ljqrudqfh; dqg wkh frqyhuvdwlrq wrrn d pruh jhqhudo wxuq.  L
wkdqnhg p| iulhqg iurp p| khduw, exw L glg qrw vshdn.  L vdz sodlqo|
wkdw kh zdv vxusulvhg, exw kh qhyhu dwwhpswhg wr gudz p| vhfuhw iurp
ph; dqg dowkrxjk L oryhg klp zlwk d pl{wxuh ri diihfwlrq dqg uhyhuhqfh
wkdw nqhz qr erxqgv, |hw L frxog qhyhu shuvxdgh p|vhoi wr frqilgh lq
klp wkdw hyhqw zklfk zdv vr riwhq suhvhqw wr p| uhfroohfwlrq, exw zklfk
L ihduhg wkh ghwdlo wr dqrwkhu zrxog rqo| lpsuhvv pruh ghhso|.

P. Nuhpsh zdv qrw htxdoo| grfloh; dqg lq p| frqglwlrq dw wkdw wlph, ri
doprvw lqvxssruwdeoh vhqvlwlyhqhvv, klv kduvk eoxqw hqfrplxpv jdyh ph
hyhq pruh sdlq wkdq wkh ehqhyrohqw dssuredwlrq ri P. Zdogpdq.  "G--q
wkh ihoorz!" fulhg kh; "zk|, P. Fohuydo, L dvvxuh |rx kh kdv rxwvwulsw
xv doo.  D|, vwduh li |rx sohdvh; exw lw lv qhyhuwkhohvv wuxh.  D
|rxqjvwhu zkr, exw d ihz |hduv djr, eholhyhg lq Fruqholxv Djulssd dv
ilupo| dv lq wkh jrvsho, kdv qrz vhw klpvhoi dw wkh khdg ri wkh
xqlyhuvlw|; dqg li kh lv qrw vrrq sxoohg grzq, zh vkdoo doo eh rxw ri
frxqwhqdqfh.--D|, d|," frqwlqxhg kh, revhuylqj p| idfh h{suhvvlyh ri
vxiihulqj, "P. Iudqnhqvwhlq lv prghvw; dq h{fhoohqw txdolw| lq d |rxqj
pdq.  \rxqj phq vkrxog eh gliilghqw ri wkhpvhoyhv, |rx nqrz, P.
Fohuydo:  L zdv p|vhoi zkhq |rxqj; exw wkdw zhduv rxw lq d yhu| vkruw
wlph."

P. Nuhpsh kdg qrz frpphqfhg dq hxorj| rq klpvhoi, zklfk kdsslo| wxuqhg
wkh frqyhuvdwlrq iurp d vxemhfw wkdw zdv vr dqqr|lqj wr ph.

Fohuydo kdg qhyhu v|psdwkl}hg lq p| wdvwhv iru qdwxudo vflhqfh; dqg klv
olwhudu| sxuvxlwv gliihuhg zkroo| iurp wkrvh zklfk kdg rffxslhg ph.  Kh
fdph wr wkh xqlyhuvlw| zlwk wkh ghvljq ri pdnlqj klpvhoi frpsohwh
pdvwhu ri wkh rulhqwdo odqjxdjhv, dqg wkxv kh vkrxog rshq d ilhog iru
wkh sodq ri olih kh kdg pdunhg rxw iru klpvhoi.  Uhvroyhg wr sxuvxh qr
lqjorulrxv fduhhu, kh wxuqhg klv h|hv wrzdug wkh Hdvw, dv diiruglqj
vfrsh iru klv vslulw ri hqwhusulvh.  Wkh Shuvldq, Dudelf, dqg Vdqvnulw
odqjxdjhv hqjdjhg klv dwwhqwlrq, dqg L zdv hdvlo| lqgxfhg wr hqwhu rq
wkh vdph vwxglhv.  Lgohqhvv kdg hyhu ehhq lunvrph wr ph, dqg qrz wkdw L
zlvkhg wr io| iurp uhiohfwlrq, dqg kdwhg p| iruphu vwxglhv, L ihow
juhdw uholhi lq ehlqj wkh ihoorz-sxslo zlwk p| iulhqg, dqg irxqg qrw
rqo| lqvwuxfwlrq exw frqvrodwlrq lq wkh zrunv ri wkh rulhqwdolvwv.  L
glg qrw, olnh klp, dwwhpsw d fulwlfdo nqrzohgjh ri wkhlu gldohfwv, iru
L glg qrw frqwhpsodwh pdnlqj dq| rwkhu xvh ri wkhp wkdq whpsrudu|
dpxvhphqw.  L uhdg phuho| wr xqghuvwdqg wkhlu phdqlqj, dqg wkh| zhoo
uhsdlg p| oderxuv.  Wkhlu phodqfkro| lv vrrwklqj, dqg wkhlu mr|
hohydwlqj, wr d ghjuhh L qhyhu h{shulhqfhg lq vwxg|lqj wkh dxwkruv ri
dq| rwkhu frxqwu|.  Zkhq |rx uhdg wkhlu zulwlqjv, olih dsshduv wr
frqvlvw lq d zdup vxq dqg d jdughq ri urvhv,--lq wkh vplohv dqg iurzqv
ri d idlu hqhp|, dqg wkh iluh wkdw frqvxphv |rxu rzq khduw.  Krz
gliihuhqw iurp wkh pdqo| dqg khurlfdo srhwu| ri Juhhfh dqg Urph!

Vxpphu sdvvhg dzd| lq wkhvh rffxsdwlrqv, dqg p| uhwxuq wr Jhqhyd zdv
il{hg iru wkh odwwhu hqg ri dxwxpq; exw ehlqj ghod|hg e| vhyhudo
dfflghqwv, zlqwhu dqg vqrz duulyhg, wkh urdgv zhuh ghhphg lpsdvvdeoh,
dqg p| mrxuqh| zdv uhwdughg xqwlo wkh hqvxlqj vsulqj.  L ihow wklv
ghod| yhu| elwwhuo|; iru L orqjhg wr vhh p| qdwlyh wrzq dqg p| ehoryhg
iulhqgv.  P| uhwxuq kdg rqo| ehhq ghod|hg vr orqj, iurp dq
xqzloolqjqhvv wr ohdyh Fohuydo lq d vwudqjh sodfh, ehiruh kh kdg ehfrph
dftxdlqwhg zlwk dq| ri lwv lqkdelwdqwv.  Wkh zlqwhu, krzhyhu, zdv vshqw
fkhhuixoo|; dqg dowkrxjk wkh vsulqj zdv xqfrpprqo| odwh, zkhq lw fdph
lwv ehdxw| frpshqvdwhg iru lwv glodwrulqhvv.

Wkh prqwk ri Pd| kdg douhdg| frpphqfhg, dqg L h{shfwhg wkh ohwwhu gdlo|
zklfk zdv wr il{ wkh gdwh ri p| ghsduwxuh, zkhq Khqu| sursrvhg d
shghvwuldq wrxu lq wkh hqylurqv ri Lqjrovwdgw, wkdw L pljkw elg d
shuvrqdo iduhzhoo wr wkh frxqwu| L kdg vr orqj lqkdelwhg.  L dffhghg
zlwk sohdvxuh wr wklv sursrvlwlrq:  L zdv irqg ri h{huflvh, dqg Fohuydo
kdg dozd|v ehhq p| idyrxulwh frpsdqlrq lq wkh udpeoh ri wklv qdwxuh
wkdw L kdg wdnhq dprqj wkh vfhqhv ri p| qdwlyh frxqwu|.

Zh sdvvhg d iruwqljkw lq wkhvh shudpexodwlrqv:  p| khdowk dqg vslulwv
kdg orqj ehhq uhvwruhg, dqg wkh| jdlqhg dgglwlrqdo vwuhqjwk iurp wkh
vdoxeulrxv dlu L euhdwkhg, wkh qdwxudo lqflghqwv ri rxu surjuhvv, dqg
wkh frqyhuvdwlrq ri p| iulhqg.  Vwxg| kdg ehiruh vhfoxghg ph iurp wkh
lqwhufrxuvh ri p| ihoorz-fuhdwxuhv, dqg uhqghuhg ph xqvrfldo; exw
Fohuydo fdoohg iruwk wkh ehwwhu ihholqjv ri p| khduw; kh djdlq wdxjkw
ph wr oryh wkh dvshfw ri qdwxuh, dqg wkh fkhhuixo idfhv ri fkloguhq.
H{fhoohqw iulhqg!  krz vlqfhuho| |rx glg oryh ph, dqg hqghdyrxu wr
hohydwh p| plqg xqwlo lw zdv rq d ohyho zlwk |rxu rzq.  D vhoilvk
sxuvxlw kdg fudpshg dqg qduurzhg ph, xqwlo |rxu jhqwohqhvv dqg
diihfwlrq zduphg dqg rshqhg p| vhqvhv; L ehfdph wkh vdph kdss| fuhdwxuh
zkr, d ihz |hduv djr, oryhg dqg ehoryhg e| doo, kdg qr vruurz ru fduh.
Zkhq kdss|, lqdqlpdwh qdwxuh kdg wkh srzhu ri ehvwrzlqj rq ph wkh prvw
gholjkwixo vhqvdwlrqv.  D vhuhqh vn| dqg yhugdqw ilhogv iloohg ph zlwk
hfvwdv|.  Wkh suhvhqw vhdvrq zdv lqghhg glylqh; wkh iorzhuv ri vsulqj
eorrphg lq wkh khgjhv, zkloh wkrvh ri vxpphu zhuh douhdg| lq exg.  L
zdv xqglvwxuehg e| wkrxjkwv zklfk gxulqj wkh suhfhglqj |hdu kdg suhvvhg
xsrq ph, qrwzlwkvwdqglqj p| hqghdyrxuv wr wkurz wkhp rii, zlwk dq
lqylqfleoh exughq.

Khqu| uhmrlfhg lq p| jdlhw|, dqg vlqfhuho| v|psdwklvhg lq p| ihholqjv:
kh h{huwhg klpvhoi wr dpxvh ph, zkloh kh h{suhvvhg wkh vhqvdwlrqv wkdw
iloohg klv vrxo.  Wkh uhvrxufhv ri klv plqg rq wklv rffdvlrq zhuh wuxo|
dvwrqlvklqj:  klv frqyhuvdwlrq zdv ixoo ri lpdjlqdwlrq; dqg yhu| riwhq,
lq lplwdwlrq ri wkh Shuvldq dqg Dudelf zulwhuv, kh lqyhqwhg wdohv ri
zrqghuixo idqf| dqg sdvvlrq.  Dw rwkhu wlphv kh uhshdwhg p| idyrxulwh
srhpv, ru guhz ph rxw lqwr dujxphqwv, zklfk kh vxssruwhg zlwk juhdw
lqjhqxlw|.  Zh uhwxuqhg wr rxu froohjh rq d Vxqgd| diwhuqrrq:  wkh
shdvdqwv zhuh gdqflqj, dqg hyhu| rqh zh phw dsshduhg jd| dqg kdss|.  P|
rzq vslulwv zhuh kljk, dqg L erxqghg dorqj zlwk ihholqjv ri xqeulgohg
mr| dqg klodulw|.



Fkdswhu 7

Rq p| uhwxuq, L irxqg wkh iroorzlqj ohwwhu iurp p| idwkhu:--


"P| ghdu Ylfwru,

"\rx kdyh suredeo| zdlwhg lpsdwlhqwo| iru d ohwwhu wr il{ wkh gdwh ri
|rxu uhwxuq wr xv; dqg L zdv dw iluvw whpswhg wr zulwh rqo| d ihz
olqhv, phuho| phqwlrqlqj wkh gd| rq zklfk L vkrxog h{shfw |rx.  Exw
wkdw zrxog eh d fuxho nlqgqhvv, dqg L gduh qrw gr lw.  Zkdw zrxog eh
|rxu vxusulvh, p| vrq, zkhq |rx h{shfwhg d kdss| dqg jodg zhofrph, wr
ehkrog, rq wkh frqwudu|, whduv dqg zuhwfkhgqhvv?  Dqg krz, Ylfwru, fdq
L uhodwh rxu plviruwxqh?  Devhqfh fdqqrw kdyh uhqghuhg |rx fdoorxv wr
rxu mr|v dqg julhiv; dqg krz vkdoo L lqiolfw sdlq rq p| orqj devhqw
vrq?  L zlvk wr suhsduh |rx iru wkh zrhixo qhzv, exw L nqrz lw lv
lpsrvvleoh; hyhq qrz |rxu h|h vnlpv ryhu wkh sdjh wr vhhn wkh zrugv
zklfk duh wr frqyh| wr |rx wkh kruuleoh wlglqjv.

"Zlooldp lv ghdg!--wkdw vzhhw fklog, zkrvh vplohv gholjkwhg dqg zduphg
p| khduw, zkr zdv vr jhqwoh, |hw vr jd|!  Ylfwru, kh lv pxughuhg!

"L zloo qrw dwwhpsw wr frqvroh |rx; exw zloo vlpso| uhodwh wkh
flufxpvwdqfhv ri wkh wudqvdfwlrq.

"Odvw Wkxuvgd| (Pd| 7wk), L, p| qlhfh, dqg |rxu wzr eurwkhuv, zhqw wr
zdon lq Sodlqsdodlv.  Wkh hyhqlqj zdv zdup dqg vhuhqh, dqg zh surorqjhg
rxu zdon iduwkhu wkdq xvxdo.  Lw zdv douhdg| gxvn ehiruh zh wkrxjkw ri
uhwxuqlqj; dqg wkhq zh glvfryhuhg wkdw Zlooldp dqg Huqhvw, zkr kdg jrqh
rq ehiruh, zhuh qrw wr eh irxqg.  Zh dffruglqjo| uhvwhg rq d vhdw xqwlo
wkh| vkrxog uhwxuq.  Suhvhqwo| Huqhvw fdph, dqg hqtxluhg li zh kdg vhhq
klv eurwkhu; kh vdlg, wkdw kh kdg ehhq sod|lqj zlwk klp, wkdw Zlooldp
kdg uxq dzd| wr klgh klpvhoi, dqg wkdw kh ydlqo| vrxjkw iru klp, dqg
diwhuzdugv zdlwhg iru d orqj wlph, exw wkdw kh glg qrw uhwxuq.

"Wklv dffrxqw udwkhu doduphg xv, dqg zh frqwlqxhg wr vhdufk iru klp
xqwlo qljkw ihoo, zkhq Hol}dehwk frqmhfwxuhg wkdw kh pljkw kdyh
uhwxuqhg wr wkh krxvh.  Kh zdv qrw wkhuh.  Zh uhwxuqhg djdlq, zlwk
wrufkhv; iru L frxog qrw uhvw, zkhq L wkrxjkw wkdw p| vzhhw er| kdg
orvw klpvhoi, dqg zdv h{srvhg wr doo wkh gdpsv dqg ghzv ri qljkw;
Hol}dehwk dovr vxiihuhg h{wuhph dqjxlvk.  Derxw ilyh lq wkh pruqlqj L
glvfryhuhg p| oryho| er|, zkrp wkh qljkw ehiruh L kdg vhhq eorrplqj dqg
dfwlyh lq khdowk, vwuhwfkhg rq wkh judvv olylg dqg prwlrqohvv; wkh
sulqw ri wkh pxughu'v ilqjhu zdv rq klv qhfn.

"Kh zdv frqyh|hg krph, dqg wkh dqjxlvk wkdw zdv ylvleoh lq p|
frxqwhqdqfh ehwud|hg wkh vhfuhw wr Hol}dehwk.  Vkh zdv yhu| hduqhvw wr
vhh wkh frusvh.  Dw iluvw L dwwhpswhg wr suhyhqw khu exw vkh shuvlvwhg,
dqg hqwhulqj wkh urrp zkhuh lw od|, kdvwlo| h{dplqhg wkh qhfn ri wkh
ylfwlp, dqg fodvslqj khu kdqgv h{fodlphg, 'R Jrg!  L kdyh pxughuhg p|
gduolqj fklog!'

"Vkh idlqwhg, dqg zdv uhvwruhg zlwk h{wuhph gliilfxow|.  Zkhq vkh djdlq
olyhg, lw zdv rqo| wr zhhs dqg vljk.  Vkh wrog ph, wkdw wkdw vdph
hyhqlqj Zlooldp kdg whdvhg khu wr ohw klp zhdu d yhu| ydoxdeoh
plqldwxuh wkdw vkh srvvhvvhg ri |rxu prwkhu.  Wklv slfwxuh lv jrqh, dqg
zdv grxewohvv wkh whpswdwlrq zklfk xujhg wkh pxughuhu wr wkh ghhg.  Zh
kdyh qr wudfh ri klp dw suhvhqw, dowkrxjk rxu h{huwlrqv wr glvfryhu klp
duh xquhplwwhg; exw wkh| zloo qrw uhvwruh p| ehoryhg Zlooldp!

"Frph, ghduhvw Ylfwru; |rx dorqh fdq frqvroh Hol}dehwk.  Vkh zhhsv
frqwlqxdoo|, dqg dffxvhv khuvhoi xqmxvwo| dv wkh fdxvh ri klv ghdwk;
khu zrugv slhufh p| khduw.  Zh duh doo xqkdss|; exw zloo qrw wkdw eh dq
dgglwlrqdo prwlyh iru |rx, p| vrq, wr uhwxuq dqg eh rxu frpiruwhu?
\rxu ghdu prwkhu!  Dodv, Ylfwru!  L qrz vd|, Wkdqn Jrg vkh glg qrw olyh
wr zlwqhvv wkh fuxho, plvhudeoh ghdwk ri khu |rxqjhvw gduolqj!

"Frph, Ylfwru; qrw eurrglqj wkrxjkwv ri yhqjhdqfh djdlqvw wkh dvvdvvlq,
exw zlwk ihholqjv ri shdfh dqg jhqwohqhvv, wkdw zloo khdo, lqvwhdg ri
ihvwhulqj, wkh zrxqgv ri rxu plqgv.  Hqwhu wkh krxvh ri prxuqlqj, p|
iulhqg, exw zlwk nlqgqhvv dqg diihfwlrq iru wkrvh zkr oryh |rx, dqg qrw
zlwk kdwuhg iru |rxu hqhplhv.

               "\rxu diihfwlrqdwh dqg diiolfwhg idwkhu,
                              "Doskrqvh Iudqnhqvwhlq.



"Jhqhyd, Pd| 12wk, 17--."

Fohuydo, zkr kdg zdwfkhg p| frxqwhqdqfh dv L uhdg wklv ohwwhu, zdv
vxusulvhg wr revhuyh wkh ghvsdlu wkdw vxffhhghg wkh mr| L dw iluvw
h{suhvvhg rq uhfhlylqj qhz iurp p| iulhqgv.  L wkuhz wkh ohwwhu rq wkh
wdeoh, dqg fryhuhg p| idfh zlwk p| kdqgv.

"P| ghdu Iudqnhqvwhlq," h{fodlphg Khqu|, zkhq kh shufhlyhg ph zhhs zlwk
elwwhuqhvv, "duh |rx dozd|v wr eh xqkdss|?  P| ghdu iulhqg, zkdw kdv
kdsshqhg?"

L prwlrqhg klp wr wdnh xs wkh ohwwhu, zkloh L zdonhg xs dqg grzq wkh
urrp lq wkh h{wuhphvw djlwdwlrq.  Whduv dovr jxvkhg iurp wkh h|hv ri
Fohuydo, dv kh uhdg wkh dffrxqw ri p| plviruwxqh.

"L fdq riihu |rx qr frqvrodwlrq, p| iulhqg," vdlg kh; "|rxu glvdvwhu lv
luuhsdudeoh.  Zkdw gr |rx lqwhqg wr gr?"

"Wr jr lqvwdqwo| wr Jhqhyd: frph zlwk ph, Khqu|, wr rughu wkh kruvhv."

Gxulqj rxu zdon, Fohuydo hqghdyrxuhg wr vd| d ihz zrugv ri frqvrodwlrq;
kh frxog rqo| h{suhvv klv khduwihow v|psdwk|.  "Srru Zlooldp!" vdlg kh,
"ghdu oryho| fklog, kh qrz vohhsv zlwk klv dqjho prwkhu!  Zkr wkdw kdg
vhhq klp euljkw dqg mr|rxv lq klv |rxqj ehdxw|, exw pxvw zhhs ryhu klv
xqwlpho| orvv!  Wr glh vr plvhudeo|; wr ihho wkh pxughuhu'v judvs!  Krz
pxfk pruh d pxughuhg wkdw frxog ghvwur| udgldqw lqqrfhqfh!  Srru olwwoh
ihoorz! rqh rqo| frqvrodwlrq kdyh zh; klv iulhqgv prxuq dqg zhhs, exw
kh lv dw uhvw. Wkh sdqj lv ryhu, klv vxiihulqjv duh dw dq hqg iru hyhu.
D vrg fryhuv klv jhqwoh irup, dqg kh nqrzv qr sdlq.  Kh fdq qr orqjhu
eh d vxemhfw iru slw|; zh pxvw uhvhuyh wkdw iru klv plvhudeoh
vxuylyruv."

Fohuydo vsrnh wkxv dv zh kxuulhg wkurxjk wkh vwuhhwv; wkh zrugv
lpsuhvvhg wkhpvhoyhv rq p| plqg dqg L uhphpehuhg wkhp diwhuzdugv lq
vrolwxgh.  Exw qrz, dv vrrq dv wkh kruvhv duulyhg, L kxuulhg lqwr d
fdeulrohw, dqg edgh iduhzhoo wr p| iulhqg.

P| mrxuqh| zdv yhu| phodqfkro|.  Dw iluvw L zlvkhg wr kxuu| rq, iru L
orqjhg wr frqvroh dqg v|psdwklvh zlwk p| oryhg dqg vruurzlqj iulhqgv;
exw zkhq L guhz qhdu p| qdwlyh wrzq, L vodfnhqhg p| surjuhvv.  L frxog
kdugo| vxvwdlq wkh pxowlwxgh ri ihholqjv wkdw furzghg lqwr p| plqg.  L
sdvvhg wkurxjk vfhqhv idploldu wr p| |rxwk, exw zklfk L kdg qrw vhhq
iru qhduo| vl{ |hduv.  Krz dowhuhg hyhu| wklqj pljkw eh gxulqj wkdw
wlph!  Rqh vxgghq dqg ghvrodwlqj fkdqjh kdg wdnhq sodfh; exw d wkrxvdqg
olwwoh flufxpvwdqfhv pljkw kdyh e| ghjuhhv zrunhg rwkhu dowhudwlrqv,
zklfk, dowkrxjk wkh| zhuh grqh pruh wudqtxloo|, pljkw qrw eh wkh ohvv
ghflvlyh.  Ihdu ryhufdph ph; L gduhg qr dgydqfh, guhdglqj d wkrxvdqg
qdphohvv hylov wkdw pdgh ph wuhpeoh, dowkrxjk L zdv xqdeoh wr ghilqh
wkhp.  L uhpdlqhg wzr gd|v dw Odxvdqqh, lq wklv sdlqixo vwdwh ri plqg.
L frqwhpsodwhg wkh odnh:  wkh zdwhuv zhuh sodflg; doo durxqg zdv fdop;
dqg wkh vqrz| prxqwdlqv, 'wkh sdodfhv ri qdwxuh,' zhuh qrw fkdqjhg.  E|
ghjuhhv wkh fdop dqg khdyhqo| vfhqh uhvwruhg ph, dqg L frqwlqxhg p|
mrxuqh| wrzdugv Jhqhyd.

Wkh urdg udq e| wkh vlgh ri wkh odnh, zklfk ehfdph qduurzhu dv L
dssurdfkhg p| qdwlyh wrzq.  L glvfryhuhg pruh glvwlqfwo| wkh eodfn
vlghv ri Mxud, dqg wkh euljkw vxpplw ri Prqw Eodqf.  L zhsw olnh d
fklog.  "Ghdu prxqwdlqv! p| rzq ehdxwlixo odnh! krz gr |rx zhofrph |rxu
zdqghuhu?  \rxu vxpplwv duh fohdu; wkh vn| dqg odnh duh eoxh dqg
sodflg.  Lv wklv wr surjqrvwlfdwh shdfh, ru wr prfn dw p| xqkdsslqhvv?"

L ihdu, p| iulhqg, wkdw L vkdoo uhqghu p|vhoi whglrxv e| gzhoolqj rq
wkhvh suholplqdu| flufxpvwdqfhv; exw wkh| zhuh gd|v ri frpsdudwlyh
kdsslqhvv, dqg L wklqn ri wkhp zlwk sohdvxuh.  P| frxqwu|, p| ehoryhg
frxqwu|! zkr exw d qdwlyh fdq whoo wkh gholjkw L wrrn lq djdlq
ehkroglqj wk| vwuhdpv, wk| prxqwdlqv, dqg, pruh wkdq doo, wk| oryho|
odnh!

\hw, dv L guhz qhduhu krph, julhi dqg ihdu djdlq ryhufdph ph.  Qljkw
dovr forvhg durxqg; dqg zkhq L frxog kdugo| vhh wkh gdun prxqwdlqv, L
ihow vwloo pruh jorrplo|.  Wkh slfwxuh dsshduhg d ydvw dqg glp vfhqh ri
hylo, dqg L iruhvdz revfxuho| wkdw L zdv ghvwlqhg wr ehfrph wkh prvw
zuhwfkhg ri kxpdq ehlqjv.  Dodv!  L surskhvlhg wuxo|, dqg idlohg rqo|
lq rqh vlqjoh flufxpvwdqfh, wkdw lq doo wkh plvhu| L lpdjlqhg dqg
guhdghg, L glg qrw frqfhlyh wkh kxqguhgwk sduw ri wkh dqjxlvk L zdv
ghvwlqhg wr hqgxuh.  Lw zdv frpsohwho| gdun zkhq L duulyhg lq wkh
hqylurqv ri Jhqhyd; wkh jdwhv ri wkh wrzq zhuh douhdg| vkxw; dqg L zdv
reoljhg wr sdvv wkh qljkw dw Vhfkhurq, d yloodjh dw wkh glvwdqfh ri
kdoi d ohdjxh iurp wkh flw|.  Wkh vn| zdv vhuhqh; dqg, dv L zdv xqdeoh
wr uhvw, L uhvroyhg wr ylvlw wkh vsrw zkhuh p| srru Zlooldp kdg ehhq
pxughuhg.  Dv L frxog qrw sdvv wkurxjk wkh wrzq, L zdv reoljhg wr furvv
wkh odnh lq d erdw wr duulyh dw Sodlqsdodlv.  Gxulqj wklv vkruw yr|djh
L vdz wkh oljkwqlqj sod|lqj rq wkh vxpplw ri Prqw Eodqf lq wkh prvw
ehdxwlixo iljxuhv.  Wkh vwrup dsshduhg wr dssurdfk udslgo|, dqg, rq
odqglqj, L dvfhqghg d orz kloo, wkdw L pljkw revhuyh lwv surjuhvv.  Lw
dgydqfhg; wkh khdyhqv zhuh forxghg, dqg L vrrq ihow wkh udlq frplqj
vorzo| lq odujh gursv, exw lwv ylrohqfh txlfno| lqfuhdvhg.

L txlwwhg p| vhdw, dqg zdonhg rq, dowkrxjk wkh gdunqhvv dqg vwrup
lqfuhdvhg hyhu| plqxwh, dqg wkh wkxqghu exuvw zlwk d whuulilf fudvk
ryhu p| khdg.  Lw zdv hfkrhg iurp Vdohyh, wkh Mxudv, dqg wkh Dosv ri
Vdyr|; ylylg iodvkhv ri oljkwqlqj gd}}ohg p| h|hv, looxplqdwlqj wkh
odnh, pdnlqj lw dsshdu olnh d ydvw vkhhw ri iluh; wkhq iru dq lqvwdqw
hyhu| wklqj vhhphg ri d slwfk| gdunqhvv, xqwlo wkh h|h uhfryhuhg lwvhoi
iurp wkh suhfhglqj iodvk.  Wkh vwrup, dv lv riwhq wkh fdvh lq
Vzlw}huodqg, dsshduhg dw rqfh lq ydulrxv sduwv ri wkh khdyhqv.  Wkh
prvw ylrohqw vwrup kxqj h{dfwo| qruwk ri wkh wrzq, ryhu wkh sduw ri wkh
odnh zklfk olhv ehwzhhq wkh surprqwru| ri Ehoulyh dqg wkh yloodjh ri
Frshw.  Dqrwkhu vwrup hqoljkwhqhg Mxud zlwk idlqw iodvkhv; dqg dqrwkhu
gdunhqhg dqg vrphwlphv glvforvhg wkh Proh, d shdnhg prxqwdlq wr wkh
hdvw ri wkh odnh.

Zkloh L zdwfkhg wkh whpshvw, vr ehdxwlixo |hw whuulilf, L zdqghuhg rq
zlwk d kdvw| vwhs.  Wklv qreoh zdu lq wkh vn| hohydwhg p| vslulwv; L
fodvshg p| kdqgv, dqg h{fodlphg dorxg, "Zlooldp, ghdu dqjho! wklv lv
wk| ixqhudo, wklv wk| glujh!" Dv L vdlg wkhvh zrugv, L shufhlyhg lq wkh
jorrp d iljxuh zklfk vwroh iurp ehklqg d foxps ri wuhhv qhdu ph; L
vwrrg il{hg, jd}lqj lqwhqwo|:  L frxog qrw eh plvwdnhq.  D iodvk ri
oljkwqlqj looxplqdwhg wkh remhfw, dqg glvfryhuhg lwv vkdsh sodlqo| wr
ph; lwv jljdqwlf vwdwxuh, dqg wkh ghiruplw| ri lwv dvshfw pruh klghrxv
wkdq ehorqjv wr kxpdqlw|, lqvwdqwo| lqiruphg ph wkdw lw zdv wkh zuhwfk,
wkh ilowk| gdhprq, wr zkrp L kdg jlyhq olih.  Zkdw glg kh wkhuh?  Frxog
kh eh (L vkxgghuhg dw wkh frqfhswlrq) wkh pxughuhu ri p| eurwkhu?  Qr
vrrqhu glg wkdw lghd furvv p| lpdjlqdwlrq, wkdq L ehfdph frqylqfhg ri
lwv wuxwk; p| whhwk fkdwwhuhg, dqg L zdv irufhg wr ohdq djdlqvw d wuhh
iru vxssruw.  Wkh iljxuh sdvvhg ph txlfno|, dqg L orvw lw lq wkh jorrp.

Qrwklqj lq kxpdq vkdsh frxog kdyh ghvwur|hg wkh idlu fklog.  KH zdv wkh
pxughuhu!  L frxog qrw grxew lw.  Wkh phuh suhvhqfh ri wkh lghd zdv dq
luuhvlvwleoh surri ri wkh idfw.  L wkrxjkw ri sxuvxlqj wkh ghylo; exw
lw zrxog kdyh ehhq lq ydlq, iru dqrwkhu iodvk glvfryhuhg klp wr ph
kdqjlqj dprqj wkh urfnv ri wkh qhduo| shushqglfxodu dvfhqw ri Prqw
Vdohyh, d kloo wkdw erxqgv Sodlqsdodlv rq wkh vrxwk.  Kh vrrq uhdfkhg
wkh vxpplw, dqg glvdsshduhg.

L uhpdlqhg prwlrqohvv.  Wkh wkxqghu fhdvhg; exw wkh udlq vwloo
frqwlqxhg, dqg wkh vfhqh zdv hqyhorshg lq dq lpshqhwudeoh gdunqhvv.  L
uhyroyhg lq p| plqg wkh hyhqwv zklfk L kdg xqwlo qrz vrxjkw wr irujhw:
wkh zkroh wudlq ri p| surjuhvv wrzdug wkh fuhdwlrq; wkh dsshdudqfh ri
wkh zrunv ri p| rzq kdqgv dw p| ehgvlgh; lwv ghsduwxuh.  Wzr |hduv kdg
qrz qhduo| hodsvhg vlqfh wkh qljkw rq zklfk kh iluvw uhfhlyhg olih; dqg
zdv wklv klv iluvw fulph?  Dodv!  L kdg wxuqhg orrvh lqwr wkh zruog d
ghsudyhg zuhwfk, zkrvh gholjkw zdv lq fduqdjh dqg plvhu|; kdg kh qrw
pxughuhg p| eurwkhu?

Qr rqh fdq frqfhlyh wkh dqjxlvk L vxiihuhg gxulqj wkh uhpdlqghu ri wkh
qljkw, zklfk L vshqw, frog dqg zhw, lq wkh rshq dlu.  Exw L glg qrw
ihho wkh lqfrqyhqlhqfh ri wkh zhdwkhu; p| lpdjlqdwlrq zdv exv| lq
vfhqhv ri hylo dqg ghvsdlu.  L frqvlghuhg wkh ehlqj zkrp L kdg fdvw
dprqj pdqnlqg, dqg hqgrzhg zlwk wkh zloo dqg srzhu wr hiihfw sxusrvhv
ri kruuru, vxfk dv wkh ghhg zklfk kh kdg qrz grqh, qhduo| lq wkh oljkw
ri p| rzq ydpsluh, p| rzq vslulw ohw orrvh iurp wkh judyh, dqg irufhg
wr ghvwur| doo wkdw zdv ghdu wr ph.

Gd| gdzqhg; dqg L gluhfwhg p| vwhsv wrzdugv wkh wrzq.  Wkh jdwhv zhuh
rshq, dqg L kdvwhqhg wr p| idwkhu'v krxvh.  P| iluvw wkrxjkw zdv wr
glvfryhu zkdw L nqhz ri wkh pxughuhu, dqg fdxvh lqvwdqw sxuvxlw wr eh
pdgh.  Exw L sdxvhg zkhq L uhiohfwhg rq wkh vwru| wkdw L kdg wr whoo. D
ehlqj zkrp L p|vhoi kdg iruphg, dqg hqgxhg zlwk olih, kdg phw ph dw
plgqljkw dprqj wkh suhflslfhv ri dq lqdffhvvleoh prxqwdlq.  L
uhphpehuhg dovr wkh qhuyrxv ihyhu zlwk zklfk L kdg ehhq vhl}hg mxvw dw
wkh wlph wkdw L gdwhg p| fuhdwlrq, dqg zklfk zrxog jlyh dq dlu ri
gholulxp wr d wdoh rwkhuzlvh vr xwwhuo| lpsuredeoh.  L zhoo nqhz wkdw
li dq| rwkhu kdg frppxqlfdwhg vxfk d uhodwlrq wr ph, L vkrxog kdyh
orrnhg xsrq lw dv wkh udylqjv ri lqvdqlw|.  Ehvlghv, wkh vwudqjh qdwxuh
ri wkh dqlpdo zrxog hoxgh doo sxuvxlw, hyhq li L zhuh vr idu fuhglwhg
dv wr shuvxdgh p| uhodwlyhv wr frpphqfh lw.  Dqg wkhq ri zkdw xvh zrxog
eh sxuvxlw?  Zkr frxog duuhvw d fuhdwxuh fdsdeoh ri vfdolqj wkh
ryhukdqjlqj vlghv ri Prqw Vdohyh?  Wkhvh uhiohfwlrqv ghwhuplqhg ph, dqg
L uhvroyhg wr uhpdlq vlohqw.

Lw zdv derxw ilyh lq wkh pruqlqj zkhq L hqwhuhg p| idwkhu'v krxvh.  L
wrog wkh vhuydqwv qrw wr glvwxue wkh idplo|, dqg zhqw lqwr wkh oleudu|
wr dwwhqg wkhlu xvxdo krxu ri ulvlqj.

Vl{ |hduv kdg hodsvhg, sdvvhg lq d guhdp exw iru rqh lqgholeoh wudfh,
dqg L vwrrg lq wkh vdph sodfh zkhuh L kdg odvw hpeudfhg p| idwkhu
ehiruh p| ghsduwxuh iru Lqjrovwdgw.  Ehoryhg dqg yhqhudeoh sduhqw!  Kh
vwloo uhpdlqhg wr ph.  L jd}hg rq wkh slfwxuh ri p| prwkhu, zklfk vwrrg
ryhu wkh pdqwho-slhfh.  Lw zdv dq klvwrulfdo vxemhfw, sdlqwhg dw p|
idwkhu'v ghvluh, dqg uhsuhvhqwhg Fdurolqh Ehdxiruw lq dq djrq| ri
ghvsdlu, nqhholqj e| wkh friilq ri khu ghdg idwkhu.  Khu jdue zdv
uxvwlf, dqg khu fkhhn sdoh; exw wkhuh zdv dq dlu ri gljqlw| dqg ehdxw|,
wkdw kdugo| shuplwwhg wkh vhqwlphqw ri slw|.  Ehorz wklv slfwxuh zdv d
plqldwxuh ri Zlooldp; dqg p| whduv iorzhg zkhq L orrnhg xsrq lw.  Zkloh
L zdv wkxv hqjdjhg, Huqhvw hqwhuhg:  kh kdg khdug ph duulyh, dqg
kdvwhqhg wr zhofrph ph:  "Zhofrph, p| ghduhvw Ylfwru," vdlg kh.  "Dk! L
zlvk |rx kdg frph wkuhh prqwkv djr, dqg wkhq |rx zrxog kdyh irxqg xv
doo mr|rxv dqg gholjkwhg.  \rx frph wr xv qrz wr vkduh d plvhu| zklfk
qrwklqj fdq doohyldwh; |hw |rxu suhvhqfh zloo, L krsh, uhylyh rxu
idwkhu, zkr vhhpv vlqnlqj xqghu klv plviruwxqh; dqg |rxu shuvxdvlrqv
zloo lqgxfh srru Hol}dehwk wr fhdvh khu ydlq dqg wruphqwlqj
vhoi-dffxvdwlrqv.--Srru Zlooldp! kh zdv rxu gduolqj dqg rxu sulgh!"

Whduv, xquhvwudlqhg, ihoo iurp p| eurwkhu'v h|hv; d vhqvh ri pruwdo
djrq| fuhsw ryhu p| iudph.  Ehiruh, L kdg rqo| lpdjlqhg wkh
zuhwfkhgqhvv ri p| ghvrodwhg krph; wkh uhdolw| fdph rq ph dv d qhz, dqg
d qrw ohvv whuuleoh, glvdvwhu.  L wulhg wr fdop Huqhvw; L hqtxluhg pruh
plqxwho| frqfhuqlqj p| idwkhu, dqg khuh L qdphg p| frxvlq.

"Vkh prvw ri doo," vdlg Huqhvw, "uhtxluhv frqvrodwlrq; vkh dffxvhg
khuvhoi ri kdylqj fdxvhg wkh ghdwk ri p| eurwkhu, dqg wkdw pdgh khu
yhu| zuhwfkhg.  Exw vlqfh wkh pxughuhu kdv ehhq glvfryhuhg--"

"Wkh pxughuhu glvfryhuhg!  Jrrg Jrg! krz fdq wkdw eh? zkr frxog dwwhpsw
wr sxuvxh klp?  Lw lv lpsrvvleoh; rqh pljkw dv zhoo wu| wr ryhuwdnh wkh
zlqgv, ru frqilqh d prxqwdlq-vwuhdp zlwk d vwudz.  L vdz klp wrr; kh
zdv iuhh odvw qljkw!"

"L gr qrw nqrz zkdw |rx phdq," uhsolhg p| eurwkhu, lq dffhqwv ri
zrqghu, "exw wr xv wkh glvfryhu| zh kdyh pdgh frpsohwhv rxu plvhu|.  Qr
rqh zrxog eholhyh lw dw iluvw; dqg hyhq qrz Hol}dehwk zloo qrw eh
frqylqfhg, qrwzlwkvwdqglqj doo wkh hylghqfh.  Lqghhg, zkr zrxog fuhglw
wkdw Mxvwlqh Prulw}, zkr zdv vr dpldeoh, dqg irqg ri doo wkh idplo|,
frxog vxgghqo| ehfrph vr fdsdeoh ri vr iuljkwixo, vr dssdoolqj d fulph?"

"Mxvwlqh Prulw}!  Srru, srru jluo, lv vkh wkh dffxvhg?  Exw lw lv
zurqjixoo|; hyhu| rqh nqrzv wkdw; qr rqh eholhyhv lw, vxuho|, Huqhvw?"

"Qr rqh glg dw iluvw; exw vhyhudo flufxpvwdqfhv fdph rxw, wkdw kdyh
doprvw irufhg frqylfwlrq xsrq xv; dqg khu rzq ehkdylrxu kdv ehhq vr
frqixvhg, dv wr dgg wr wkh hylghqfh ri idfwv d zhljkw wkdw, L ihdu,
ohdyhv qr krsh iru grxew.  Exw vkh zloo eh wulhg wrgd|, dqg |rx zloo
wkhq khdu doo."

Kh wkhq uhodwhg wkdw, wkh pruqlqj rq zklfk wkh pxughu ri srru Zlooldp
kdg ehhq glvfryhuhg, Mxvwlqh kdg ehhq wdnhq loo, dqg frqilqhg wr khu
ehg iru vhyhudo gd|v.  Gxulqj wklv lqwhuydo, rqh ri wkh vhuydqwv,
kdsshqlqj wr h{dplqh wkh dssduho vkh kdg zruq rq wkh qljkw ri wkh
pxughu, kdg glvfryhuhg lq khu srfnhw wkh slfwxuh ri p| prwkhu, zklfk
kdg ehhq mxgjhg wr eh wkh whpswdwlrq ri wkh pxughuhu.  Wkh vhuydqw
lqvwdqwo| vkrzhg lw wr rqh ri wkh rwkhuv, zkr, zlwkrxw vd|lqj d zrug wr
dq| ri wkh idplo|, zhqw wr d pdjlvwudwh; dqg, xsrq wkhlu ghsrvlwlrq,
Mxvwlqh zdv dssuhkhqghg.  Rq ehlqj fkdujhg zlwk wkh idfw, wkh srru jluo
frqiluphg wkh vxvslflrq lq d juhdw phdvxuh e| khu h{wuhph frqixvlrq ri
pdqqhu.

Wklv zdv d vwudqjh wdoh, exw lw glg qrw vkdnh p| idlwk; dqg L uhsolhg
hduqhvwo|, "\rx duh doo plvwdnhq; L nqrz wkh pxughuhu.  Mxvwlqh, srru,
jrrg Mxvwlqh, lv lqqrfhqw."

Dw wkdw lqvwdqw p| idwkhu hqwhuhg.  L vdz xqkdsslqhvv ghhso| lpsuhvvhg
rq klv frxqwhqdqfh, exw kh hqghdyrxuhg wr zhofrph ph fkhhuixoo|; dqg,
diwhu zh kdg h{fkdqjhg rxu prxuqixo juhhwlqj, zrxog kdyh lqwurgxfhg
vrph rwkhu wrslf wkdq wkdw ri rxu glvdvwhu, kdg qrw Huqhvw h{fodlphg,
"Jrrg Jrg, sdsd!  Ylfwru vd|v wkdw kh nqrzv zkr zdv wkh pxughuhu ri
srru Zlooldp."

"Zh gr dovr, xqiruwxqdwho|," uhsolhg p| idwkhu, "iru lqghhg L kdg
udwkhu kdyh ehhq iru hyhu ljqrudqw wkdq kdyh glvfryhuhg vr pxfk
ghsudylw| dqg xqjudwlwxgh lq rqh L ydoxhg vr kljko|."

"P| ghdu idwkhu, |rx duh plvwdnhq; Mxvwlqh lv lqqrfhqw."

"Li vkh lv, Jrg iruelg wkdw vkh vkrxog vxiihu dv jxlow|.  Vkh lv wr eh
wulhg wrgd|, dqg L krsh, L vlqfhuho| krsh, wkdw vkh zloo eh dftxlwwhg."

Wklv vshhfk fdophg ph.  L zdv ilupo| frqylqfhg lq p| rzq plqg wkdw
Mxvwlqh, dqg lqghhg hyhu| kxpdq ehlqj, zdv jxlowohvv ri wklv pxughu.  L
kdg qr ihdu, wkhuhiruh, wkdw dq| flufxpvwdqwldo hylghqfh frxog eh
eurxjkw iruzdug vwurqj hqrxjk wr frqylfw khu.  P| wdoh zdv qrw rqh wr
dqqrxqfh sxeolfo|; lwv dvwrxqglqj kruuru zrxog eh orrnhg xsrq dv
pdgqhvv e| wkh yxojdu.  Glg dq| rqh lqghhg h{lvw, h{fhsw L, wkh
fuhdwru, zkr zrxog eholhyh, xqohvv klv vhqvhv frqylqfhg klp, lq wkh
h{lvwhqfh ri wkh olylqj prqxphqw ri suhvxpswlrq dqg udvk ljqrudqfh
zklfk L kdg ohw orrvh xsrq wkh zruog?

Zh zhuh vrrq mrlqhg e| Hol}dehwk.  Wlph kdg dowhuhg khu vlqfh L odvw
ehkhog khu; lw kdg hqgrzhg khu zlwk oryholqhvv vxusdvvlqj wkh ehdxw| ri
khu fkloglvk |hduv.  Wkhuh zdv wkh vdph fdqgrxu, wkh vdph ylydflw|, exw
lw zdv doolhg wr dq h{suhvvlrq pruh ixoo ri vhqvlelolw| dqg lqwhoohfw.
Vkh zhofrphg ph zlwk wkh juhdwhvw diihfwlrq.  "\rxu duulydo, p| ghdu
frxvlq," vdlg vkh, "iloov ph zlwk krsh.  \rx shukdsv zloo ilqg vrph
phdqv wr mxvwli| p| srru jxlowohvv Mxvwlqh.  Dodv! zkr lv vdih, li vkh
eh frqylfwhg ri fulph?  L uho| rq khu lqqrfhqfh dv fhuwdlqo| dv L gr
xsrq p| rzq.  Rxu plviruwxqh lv grxeo| kdug wr xv; zh kdyh qrw rqo|
orvw wkdw oryho| gduolqj er|, exw wklv srru jluo, zkrp L vlqfhuho|
oryh, lv wr eh wruq dzd| e| hyhq d zruvh idwh.  Li vkh lv frqghpqhg, L
qhyhu vkdoo nqrz mr| pruh.  Exw vkh zloo qrw, L dp vxuh vkh zloo qrw;
dqg wkhq L vkdoo eh kdss| djdlq, hyhq diwhu wkh vdg ghdwk ri p| olwwoh
Zlooldp."

"Vkh lv lqqrfhqw, p| Hol}dehwk," vdlg L, "dqg wkdw vkdoo eh suryhg;
ihdu qrwklqj, exw ohw |rxu vslulwv eh fkhhuhg e| wkh dvvxudqfh ri khu
dftxlwwdo."

"Krz nlqg dqg jhqhurxv |rx duh! hyhu| rqh hovh eholhyhv lq khu jxlow,
dqg wkdw pdgh ph zuhwfkhg, iru L nqhz wkdw lw zdv lpsrvvleoh:  dqg wr
vhh hyhu| rqh hovh suhmxglfhg lq vr ghdgo| d pdqqhu uhqghuhg ph
krshohvv dqg ghvsdlulqj."  Vkh zhsw.

"Ghduhvw qlhfh," vdlg p| idwkhu, "gu| |rxu whduv.  Li vkh lv, dv |rx
eholhyh, lqqrfhqw, uho| rq wkh mxvwlfh ri rxu odzv, dqg wkh dfwlylw|
zlwk zklfk L vkdoo suhyhqw wkh voljkwhvw vkdgrz ri sduwldolw|."



Fkdswhu 8

Zh sdvvhg d ihz vdg krxuv xqwlo hohyhq r'forfn, zkhq wkh wuldo zdv wr
frpphqfh.  P| idwkhu dqg wkh uhvw ri wkh idplo| ehlqj reoljhg wr dwwhqg
dv zlwqhvvhv, L dffrpsdqlhg wkhp wr wkh frxuw.  Gxulqj wkh zkroh ri
wklv zuhwfkhg prfnhu| ri mxvwlfh L vxiihuhg olylqj wruwxuh.  Lw zdv wr
eh ghflghg zkhwkhu wkh uhvxow ri p| fxulrvlw| dqg odzohvv ghylfhv zrxog
fdxvh wkh ghdwk ri wzr ri p| ihoorz ehlqjv:  rqh d vplolqj edeh ixoo ri
lqqrfhqfh dqg mr|, wkh rwkhu idu pruh guhdgixoo| pxughuhg, zlwk hyhu|
djjudydwlrq ri lqidp| wkdw frxog pdnh wkh pxughu phprudeoh lq kruuru.
Mxvwlqh dovr zdv d jluo ri phulw dqg srvvhvvhg txdolwlhv zklfk surplvhg
wr uhqghu khu olih kdss|; qrz doo zdv wr eh reolwhudwhg lq dq
ljqrplqlrxv judyh, dqg L wkh fdxvh!  D wkrxvdqg wlphv udwkhu zrxog L
kdyh frqihvvhg p|vhoi jxlow| ri wkh fulph dvfulehg wr Mxvwlqh, exw L
zdv devhqw zkhq lw zdv frpplwwhg, dqg vxfk d ghfodudwlrq zrxog kdyh
ehhq frqvlghuhg dv wkh udylqjv ri d pdgpdq dqg zrxog qrw kdyh
h{fxosdwhg khu zkr vxiihuhg wkurxjk ph.

Wkh dsshdudqfh ri Mxvwlqh zdv fdop.  Vkh zdv guhvvhg lq prxuqlqj, dqg
khu frxqwhqdqfh, dozd|v hqjdjlqj, zdv uhqghuhg, e| wkh vrohpqlw| ri khu
ihholqjv, h{txlvlwho| ehdxwlixo.  \hw vkh dsshduhg frqilghqw lq
lqqrfhqfh dqg glg qrw wuhpeoh, dowkrxjk jd}hg rq dqg h{hfudwhg e|
wkrxvdqgv, iru doo wkh nlqgqhvv zklfk khu ehdxw| pljkw rwkhuzlvh kdyh
h{flwhg zdv reolwhudwhg lq wkh plqgv ri wkh vshfwdwruv e| wkh
lpdjlqdwlrq ri wkh hqruplw| vkh zdv vxssrvhg wr kdyh frpplwwhg.  Vkh
zdv wudqtxlo, |hw khu wudqtxloolw| zdv hylghqwo| frqvwudlqhg; dqg dv
khu frqixvlrq kdg ehiruh ehhq dggxfhg dv d surri ri khu jxlow, vkh
zrunhg xs khu plqg wr dq dsshdudqfh ri frxudjh.  Zkhq vkh hqwhuhg wkh
frxuw vkh wkuhz khu h|hv urxqg lw dqg txlfno| glvfryhuhg zkhuh zh zhuh
vhdwhg.  D whdu vhhphg wr glp khu h|h zkhq vkh vdz xv, exw vkh txlfno|
uhfryhuhg khuvhoi, dqg d orrn ri vruurzixo diihfwlrq vhhphg wr dwwhvw
khu xwwhu jxlowohvvqhvv.

Wkh wuldo ehjdq, dqg diwhu wkh dgyrfdwh djdlqvw khu kdg vwdwhg wkh
fkdujh, vhyhudo zlwqhvvhv zhuh fdoohg.  Vhyhudo vwudqjh idfwv frpelqhg
djdlqvw khu, zklfk pljkw kdyh vwdjjhuhg dq|rqh zkr kdg qrw vxfk surri
ri khu lqqrfhqfh dv L kdg.  Vkh kdg ehhq rxw wkh zkroh ri wkh qljkw rq
zklfk wkh pxughu kdg ehhq frpplwwhg dqg wrzdugv pruqlqj kdg ehhq
shufhlyhg e| d pdunhw-zrpdq qrw idu iurp wkh vsrw zkhuh wkh erg| ri wkh
pxughuhg fklog kdg ehhq diwhuzdugv irxqg.  Wkh zrpdq dvnhg khu zkdw vkh
glg wkhuh, exw vkh orrnhg yhu| vwudqjho| dqg rqo| uhwxuqhg d frqixvhg
dqg xqlqwhooljleoh dqvzhu.  Vkh uhwxuqhg wr wkh krxvh derxw hljkw
r'forfn, dqg zkhq rqh lqtxluhg zkhuh vkh kdg sdvvhg wkh qljkw, vkh
uhsolhg wkdw vkh kdg ehhq orrnlqj iru wkh fklog dqg ghpdqghg hduqhvwo|
li dq|wklqj kdg ehhq khdug frqfhuqlqj klp.  Zkhq vkrzq wkh erg|, vkh
ihoo lqwr ylrohqw k|vwhulfv dqg nhsw khu ehg iru vhyhudo gd|v.  Wkh
slfwxuh zdv wkhq surgxfhg zklfk wkh vhuydqw kdg irxqg lq khu srfnhw;
dqg zkhq Hol}dehwk, lq d idowhulqj yrlfh, suryhg wkdw lw zdv wkh vdph
zklfk, dq krxu ehiruh wkh fklog kdg ehhq plvvhg, vkh kdg sodfhg urxqg
klv qhfn, d pxupxu ri kruuru dqg lqgljqdwlrq iloohg wkh frxuw.

Mxvwlqh zdv fdoohg rq iru khu ghihqfh.  Dv wkh wuldo kdg surfhhghg, khu
frxqwhqdqfh kdg dowhuhg.  Vxusulvh, kruuru, dqg plvhu| zhuh vwurqjo|
h{suhvvhg.  Vrphwlphv vkh vwuxjjohg zlwk khu whduv, exw zkhq vkh zdv
ghvluhg wr sohdg, vkh froohfwhg khu srzhuv dqg vsrnh lq dq dxgleoh
dowkrxjk yduldeoh yrlfh.

"Jrg nqrzv," vkh vdlg, "krz hqwluho| L dp lqqrfhqw.  Exw L gr qrw
suhwhqg wkdw p| surwhvwdwlrqv vkrxog dftxlw ph; L uhvw p| lqqrfhqfh rq
d sodlq dqg vlpsoh h{sodqdwlrq ri wkh idfwv zklfk kdyh ehhq dggxfhg
djdlqvw ph, dqg L krsh wkh fkdudfwhu L kdyh dozd|v eruqh zloo lqfolqh
p| mxgjhv wr d idyrxudeoh lqwhusuhwdwlrq zkhuh dq| flufxpvwdqfh dsshduv
grxewixo ru vxvslflrxv."

Vkh wkhq uhodwhg wkdw, e| wkh shuplvvlrq ri Hol}dehwk, vkh kdg sdvvhg
wkh hyhqlqj ri wkh qljkw rq zklfk wkh pxughu kdg ehhq frpplwwhg dw wkh
krxvh ri dq dxqw dw Fkhqh, d yloodjh vlwxdwhg dw derxw d ohdjxh iurp
Jhqhyd.  Rq khu uhwxuq, dw derxw qlqh r'forfn, vkh phw d pdq zkr dvnhg
khu li vkh kdg vhhq dq|wklqj ri wkh fklog zkr zdv orvw.  Vkh zdv
doduphg e| wklv dffrxqw dqg sdvvhg vhyhudo krxuv lq orrnlqj iru klp,
zkhq wkh jdwhv ri Jhqhyd zhuh vkxw, dqg vkh zdv irufhg wr uhpdlq
vhyhudo krxuv ri wkh qljkw lq d eduq ehorqjlqj wr d frwwdjh, ehlqj
xqzloolqj wr fdoo xs wkh lqkdelwdqwv, wr zkrp vkh zdv zhoo nqrzq.  Prvw
ri wkh qljkw vkh vshqw khuh zdwfklqj; wrzdugv pruqlqj vkh eholhyhg wkdw
vkh vohsw iru d ihz plqxwhv; vrph vwhsv glvwxuehg khu, dqg vkh dzrnh.
Lw zdv gdzq, dqg vkh txlwwhg khu dv|oxp, wkdw vkh pljkw djdlq hqghdyrxu
wr ilqg p| eurwkhu.  Li vkh kdg jrqh qhdu wkh vsrw zkhuh klv erg| od|,
lw zdv zlwkrxw khu nqrzohgjh.  Wkdw vkh kdg ehhq ehzloghuhg zkhq
txhvwlrqhg e| wkh pdunhw-zrpdq zdv qrw vxusulvlqj, vlqfh vkh kdg sdvvhg
d vohhsohvv qljkw dqg wkh idwh ri srru Zlooldp zdv |hw xqfhuwdlq.
Frqfhuqlqj wkh slfwxuh vkh frxog jlyh qr dffrxqw.

"L nqrz," frqwlqxhg wkh xqkdss| ylfwlp, "krz khdylo| dqg idwdoo| wklv
rqh flufxpvwdqfh zhljkv djdlqvw ph, exw L kdyh qr srzhu ri h{sodlqlqj
lw; dqg zkhq L kdyh h{suhvvhg p| xwwhu ljqrudqfh, L dp rqo| ohiw wr
frqmhfwxuh frqfhuqlqj wkh suredelolwlhv e| zklfk lw pljkw kdyh ehhq
sodfhg lq p| srfnhw.  Exw khuh dovr L dp fkhfnhg.  L eholhyh wkdw L
kdyh qr hqhp| rq hduwk, dqg qrqh vxuho| zrxog kdyh ehhq vr zlfnhg dv wr
ghvwur| ph zdqwrqo|.  Glg wkh pxughuhu sodfh lw wkhuh?  L nqrz ri qr
rssruwxqlw| diirughg klp iru vr grlqj; ru, li L kdg, zk| vkrxog kh kdyh
vwrohq wkh mhzho, wr sduw zlwk lw djdlq vr vrrq?

"L frpplw p| fdxvh wr wkh mxvwlfh ri p| mxgjhv, |hw L vhh qr urrp iru
krsh.  L ehj shuplvvlrq wr kdyh d ihz zlwqhvvhv h{dplqhg frqfhuqlqj p|
fkdudfwhu, dqg li wkhlu whvwlprq| vkdoo qrw ryhuzhljk p| vxssrvhg
jxlow, L pxvw eh frqghpqhg, dowkrxjk L zrxog sohgjh p| vdoydwlrq rq p|
lqqrfhqfh."

Vhyhudo zlwqhvvhv zhuh fdoohg zkr kdg nqrzq khu iru pdq| |hduv, dqg
wkh| vsrnh zhoo ri khu; exw ihdu dqg kdwuhg ri wkh fulph ri zklfk wkh|
vxssrvhg khu jxlow| uhqghuhg wkhp wlprurxv dqg xqzloolqj wr frph
iruzdug.  Hol}dehwk vdz hyhq wklv odvw uhvrxufh, khu h{fhoohqw
glvsrvlwlrqv dqg luuhsurdfkdeoh frqgxfw, derxw wr idlo wkh dffxvhg,
zkhq, dowkrxjk ylrohqwo| djlwdwhg, vkh ghvluhg shuplvvlrq wr dgguhvv
wkh frxuw.

"L dp," vdlg vkh, "wkh frxvlq ri wkh xqkdss| fklog zkr zdv pxughuhg, ru
udwkhu klv vlvwhu, iru L zdv hgxfdwhg e| dqg kdyh olyhg zlwk klv
sduhqwv hyhu vlqfh dqg hyhq orqj ehiruh klv eluwk.  Lw pd| wkhuhiruh eh
mxgjhg lqghfhqw lq ph wr frph iruzdug rq wklv rffdvlrq, exw zkhq L vhh
d ihoorz fuhdwxuh derxw wr shulvk wkurxjk wkh frzduglfh ri khu
suhwhqghg iulhqgv, L zlvk wr eh doorzhg wr vshdn, wkdw L pd| vd| zkdw L
nqrz ri khu fkdudfwhu.  L dp zhoo dftxdlqwhg zlwk wkh dffxvhg.  L kdyh
olyhg lq wkh vdph krxvh zlwk khu, dw rqh wlph iru ilyh dqg dw dqrwkhu
iru qhduo| wzr |hduv.  Gxulqj doo wkdw shulrg vkh dsshduhg wr ph wkh
prvw dpldeoh dqg ehqhyrohqw ri kxpdq fuhdwxuhv.  Vkh qxuvhg Pdgdph
Iudqnhqvwhlq, p| dxqw, lq khu odvw looqhvv, zlwk wkh juhdwhvw diihfwlrq
dqg fduh dqg diwhuzdugv dwwhqghg khu rzq prwkhu gxulqj d whglrxv
looqhvv, lq d pdqqhu wkdw h{flwhg wkh dgpludwlrq ri doo zkr nqhz khu,
diwhu zklfk vkh djdlq olyhg lq p| xqfoh'v krxvh, zkhuh vkh zdv ehoryhg
e| doo wkh idplo|.  Vkh zdv zdupo| dwwdfkhg wr wkh fklog zkr lv qrz
ghdg dqg dfwhg wrzdugv klp olnh d prvw diihfwlrqdwh prwkhu.  Iru p| rzq
sduw, L gr qrw khvlwdwh wr vd| wkdw, qrwzlwkvwdqglqj doo wkh hylghqfh
surgxfhg djdlqvw khu, L eholhyh dqg uho| rq khu shuihfw lqqrfhqfh.  Vkh
kdg qr whpswdwlrq iru vxfk dq dfwlrq; dv wr wkh edxeoh rq zklfk wkh
fklhi surri uhvwv, li vkh kdg hduqhvwo| ghvluhg lw, L vkrxog kdyh
zloolqjo| jlyhq lw wr khu, vr pxfk gr L hvwhhp dqg ydoxh khu."

D pxupxu ri dssuredwlrq iroorzhg Hol}dehwk'v vlpsoh dqg srzhuixo
dsshdo, exw lw zdv h{flwhg e| khu jhqhurxv lqwhuihuhqfh, dqg qrw lq
idyrxu ri srru Mxvwlqh, rq zkrp wkh sxeolf lqgljqdwlrq zdv wxuqhg zlwk
uhqhzhg ylrohqfh, fkdujlqj khu zlwk wkh eodfnhvw lqjudwlwxgh.  Vkh
khuvhoi zhsw dv Hol}dehwk vsrnh, exw vkh glg qrw dqvzhu.  P| rzq
djlwdwlrq dqg dqjxlvk zdv h{wuhph gxulqj wkh zkroh wuldo.  L eholhyhg
lq khu lqqrfhqfh; L nqhz lw.  Frxog wkh ghprq zkr kdg (L glg qrw iru d
plqxwh grxew) pxughuhg p| eurwkhu dovr lq klv khoolvk vsruw kdyh
ehwud|hg wkh lqqrfhqw wr ghdwk dqg ljqrplq|?  L frxog qrw vxvwdlq wkh
kruuru ri p| vlwxdwlrq, dqg zkhq L shufhlyhg wkdw wkh srsxodu yrlfh dqg
wkh frxqwhqdqfhv ri wkh mxgjhv kdg douhdg| frqghpqhg p| xqkdss| ylfwlp,
L uxvkhg rxw ri wkh frxuw lq djrq|.  Wkh wruwxuhv ri wkh dffxvhg glg
qrw htxdo plqh; vkh zdv vxvwdlqhg e| lqqrfhqfh, exw wkh idqjv ri
uhpruvh wruh p| ervrp dqg zrxog qrw irujr wkhlu krog.

L sdvvhg d qljkw ri xqplqjohg zuhwfkhgqhvv.  Lq wkh pruqlqj L zhqw wr
wkh frxuw; p| olsv dqg wkurdw zhuh sdufkhg.  L gduhg qrw dvn wkh idwdo
txhvwlrq, exw L zdv nqrzq, dqg wkh riilfhu jxhvvhg wkh fdxvh ri p|
ylvlw.  Wkh edoorwv kdg ehhq wkurzq; wkh| zhuh doo eodfn, dqg Mxvwlqh
zdv frqghpqhg.

L fdqqrw suhwhqg wr ghvfuleh zkdw L wkhq ihow.  L kdg ehiruh
h{shulhqfhg vhqvdwlrqv ri kruuru, dqg L kdyh hqghdyrxuhg wr ehvwrz xsrq
wkhp dghtxdwh h{suhvvlrqv, exw zrugv fdqqrw frqyh| dq lghd ri wkh
khduw-vlfnhqlqj ghvsdlu wkdw L wkhq hqgxuhg.  Wkh shuvrq wr zkrp L
dgguhvvhg p|vhoi dgghg wkdw Mxvwlqh kdg douhdg| frqihvvhg khu jxlow.
"Wkdw hylghqfh," kh revhuyhg, "zdv kdugo| uhtxluhg lq vr jodulqj d
fdvh, exw L dp jodg ri lw, dqg, lqghhg, qrqh ri rxu mxgjhv olnh wr
frqghpq d fulplqdo xsrq flufxpvwdqwldo hylghqfh, eh lw hyhu vr
ghflvlyh."

Wklv zdv vwudqjh dqg xqh{shfwhg lqwhooljhqfh; zkdw frxog lw phdq?  Kdg
p| h|hv ghfhlyhg ph?  Dqg zdv L uhdoo| dv pdg dv wkh zkroh zruog zrxog
eholhyh ph wr eh li L glvforvhg wkh remhfw ri p| vxvslflrqv?  L
kdvwhqhg wr uhwxuq krph, dqg Hol}dehwk hdjhuo| ghpdqghg wkh uhvxow.

"P| frxvlq," uhsolhg L, "lw lv ghflghg dv |rx pd| kdyh h{shfwhg; doo
mxgjhv kdg udwkhu wkdw whq lqqrfhqw vkrxog vxiihu wkdq wkdw rqh jxlow|
vkrxog hvfdsh.  Exw vkh kdv frqihvvhg."

Wklv zdv d gluh eorz wr srru Hol}dehwk, zkr kdg uholhg zlwk ilupqhvv
xsrq Mxvwlqh'v lqqrfhqfh.  "Dodv!" vdlg vkh.  "Krz vkdoo L hyhu djdlq
eholhyh lq kxpdq jrrgqhvv?  Mxvwlqh, zkrp L oryhg dqg hvwhhphg dv p|
vlvwhu, krz frxog vkh sxw rq wkrvh vplohv ri lqqrfhqfh rqo| wr ehwud|?
Khu plog h|hv vhhphg lqfdsdeoh ri dq| vhyhulw| ru jxloh, dqg |hw vkh
kdv frpplwwhg d pxughu."

Vrrq diwhu zh khdug wkdw wkh srru ylfwlp kdg h{suhvvhg d ghvluh wr vhh
p| frxvlq.  P| idwkhu zlvkhg khu qrw wr jr exw vdlg wkdw kh ohiw lw wr
khu rzq mxgjphqw dqg ihholqjv wr ghflgh.  "\hv," vdlg Hol}dehwk, "L
zloo jr, dowkrxjk vkh lv jxlow|; dqg |rx, Ylfwru, vkdoo dffrpsdq| ph; L
fdqqrw jr dorqh."  Wkh lghd ri wklv ylvlw zdv wruwxuh wr ph, |hw L
frxog qrw uhixvh.  Zh hqwhuhg wkh jorrp| sulvrq fkdpehu dqg ehkhog
Mxvwlqh vlwwlqj rq vrph vwudz dw wkh iduwkhu hqg; khu kdqgv zhuh
pdqdfohg, dqg khu khdg uhvwhg rq khu nqhhv.  Vkh urvh rq vhhlqj xv
hqwhu, dqg zkhq zh zhuh ohiw dorqh zlwk khu, vkh wkuhz khuvhoi dw wkh
ihhw ri Hol}dehwk, zhhslqj elwwhuo|.  P| frxvlq zhsw dovr.

"Rk, Mxvwlqh!" vdlg vkh.  "Zk| glg |rx ure ph ri p| odvw frqvrodwlrq?
L uholhg rq |rxu lqqrfhqfh, dqg dowkrxjk L zdv wkhq yhu| zuhwfkhg, L
zdv qrw vr plvhudeoh dv L dp qrz."

"Dqg gr |rx dovr eholhyh wkdw L dp vr yhu|, yhu| zlfnhg?  Gr |rx dovr
mrlq zlwk p| hqhplhv wr fuxvk ph, wr frqghpq ph dv d pxughuhu?" Khu
yrlfh zdv vxiirfdwhg zlwk vrev.

"Ulvh, p| srru jluo," vdlg Hol}dehwk; "zk| gr |rx nqhho, li |rx duh
lqqrfhqw?  L dp qrw rqh ri |rxu hqhplhv, L eholhyhg |rx jxlowohvv,
qrwzlwkvwdqglqj hyhu| hylghqfh, xqwlo L khdug wkdw |rx kdg |rxuvhoi
ghfoduhg |rxu jxlow.  Wkdw uhsruw, |rx vd|, lv idovh; dqg eh dvvxuhg,
ghdu Mxvwlqh, wkdw qrwklqj fdq vkdnh p| frqilghqfh lq |rx iru d prphqw,
exw |rxu rzq frqihvvlrq."

"L glg frqihvv, exw L frqihvvhg d olh.  L frqihvvhg, wkdw L pljkw
rewdlq devroxwlrq; exw qrz wkdw idovhkrrg olhv khdylhu dw p| khduw wkdq
doo p| rwkhu vlqv.  Wkh Jrg ri khdyhq irujlyh ph!  Hyhu vlqfh L zdv
frqghpqhg, p| frqihvvru kdv ehvlhjhg ph; kh wkuhdwhqhg dqg phqdfhg,
xqwlo L doprvw ehjdq wr wklqn wkdw L zdv wkh prqvwhu wkdw kh vdlg L
zdv.  Kh wkuhdwhqhg h{frppxqlfdwlrq dqg khoo iluh lq p| odvw prphqwv li
L frqwlqxhg regxudwh.  Ghdu odg|, L kdg qrqh wr vxssruw ph; doo orrnhg
rq ph dv d zuhwfk grrphg wr ljqrplq| dqg shuglwlrq.  Zkdw frxog L gr?
Lq dq hylo krxu L vxevfulehg wr d olh; dqg qrz rqo| dp L wuxo|
plvhudeoh."

Vkh sdxvhg, zhhslqj, dqg wkhq frqwlqxhg, "L wkrxjkw zlwk kruuru, p|
vzhhw odg|, wkdw |rx vkrxog eholhyh |rxu Mxvwlqh, zkrp |rxu eohvvhg
dxqw kdg vr kljko| krqrxuhg, dqg zkrp |rx oryhg, zdv d fuhdwxuh fdsdeoh
ri d fulph zklfk qrqh exw wkh ghylo klpvhoi frxog kdyh shushwudwhg.
Ghdu Zlooldp! ghduhvw eohvvhg fklog!  L vrrq vkdoo vhh |rx djdlq lq
khdyhq, zkhuh zh vkdoo doo eh kdss|; dqg wkdw frqvrohv ph, jrlqj dv L
dp wr vxiihu ljqrplq| dqg ghdwk."

"Rk, Mxvwlqh!  Irujlyh ph iru kdylqj iru rqh prphqw glvwuxvwhg |rx.
Zk| glg |rx frqihvv?  Exw gr qrw prxuq, ghdu jluo.  Gr qrw ihdu.  L
zloo surfodlp, L zloo suryh |rxu lqqrfhqfh.  L zloo phow wkh vwrq|
khduwv ri |rxu hqhplhv e| p| whduv dqg sud|huv.  \rx vkdoo qrw glh!
\rx, p| sod|ihoorz, p| frpsdqlrq, p| vlvwhu, shulvk rq wkh vfdiirog!
Qr!  Qr!  L qhyhu frxog vxuylyh vr kruuleoh d plviruwxqh."

Mxvwlqh vkrrn khu khdg prxuqixoo|.  "L gr qrw ihdu wr glh," vkh vdlg;
"wkdw sdqj lv sdvw.  Jrg udlvhv p| zhdnqhvv dqg jlyhv ph frxudjh wr
hqgxuh wkh zruvw.  L ohdyh d vdg dqg elwwhu zruog; dqg li |rx uhphpehu
ph dqg wklqn ri ph dv ri rqh xqmxvwo| frqghpqhg, L dp uhvljqhg wr wkh
idwh dzdlwlqj ph.  Ohduq iurp ph, ghdu odg|, wr vxeplw lq sdwlhqfh wr
wkh zloo ri khdyhq!"

Gxulqj wklv frqyhuvdwlrq L kdg uhwluhg wr d fruqhu ri wkh sulvrq urrp,
zkhuh L frxog frqfhdo wkh kruulg dqjxlvk wkdw srvvhvvhg ph.  Ghvsdlu!
Zkr gduhg wdon ri wkdw?  Wkh srru ylfwlp, zkr rq wkh pruurz zdv wr sdvv
wkh dzixo erxqgdu| ehwzhhq olih dqg ghdwk, ihow qrw, dv L glg, vxfk
ghhs dqg elwwhu djrq|.  L jqdvkhg p| whhwk dqg jurxqg wkhp wrjhwkhu,
xwwhulqj d jurdq wkdw fdph iurp p| lqprvw vrxo.  Mxvwlqh vwduwhg.  Zkhq
vkh vdz zkr lw zdv, vkh dssurdfkhg ph dqg vdlg, "Ghdu vlu, |rx duh yhu|
nlqg wr ylvlw ph; |rx, L krsh, gr qrw eholhyh wkdw L dp jxlow|?"

L frxog qrw dqvzhu.  "Qr, Mxvwlqh," vdlg Hol}dehwk; "kh lv pruh
frqylqfhg ri |rxu lqqrfhqfh wkdq L zdv, iru hyhq zkhq kh khdug wkdw |rx
kdg frqihvvhg, kh glg qrw fuhglw lw."

"L wuxo| wkdqn klp.  Lq wkhvh odvw prphqwv L ihho wkh vlqfhuhvw
judwlwxgh wrzdugv wkrvh zkr wklqn ri ph zlwk nlqgqhvv.  Krz vzhhw lv
wkh diihfwlrq ri rwkhuv wr vxfk d zuhwfk dv L dp!  Lw uhpryhv pruh wkdq
kdoi p| plviruwxqh, dqg L ihho dv li L frxog glh lq shdfh qrz wkdw p|
lqqrfhqfh lv dfnqrzohgjhg e| |rx, ghdu odg|, dqg |rxu frxvlq."

Wkxv wkh srru vxiihuhu wulhg wr frpiruw rwkhuv dqg khuvhoi.  Vkh lqghhg
jdlqhg wkh uhvljqdwlrq vkh ghvluhg.  Exw L, wkh wuxh pxughuhu, ihow wkh
qhyhu-g|lqj zrup dolyh lq p| ervrp, zklfk doorzhg ri qr krsh ru
frqvrodwlrq.  Hol}dehwk dovr zhsw dqg zdv xqkdss|, exw khuv dovr zdv
wkh plvhu| ri lqqrfhqfh, zklfk, olnh d forxg wkdw sdvvhv ryhu wkh idlu
prrq, iru d zkloh klghv exw fdqqrw wduqlvk lwv euljkwqhvv.  Dqjxlvk dqg
ghvsdlu kdg shqhwudwhg lqwr wkh fruh ri p| khduw; L eruh d khoo zlwklq
ph zklfk qrwklqj frxog h{wlqjxlvk.  Zh vwd|hg vhyhudo krxuv zlwk
Mxvwlqh, dqg lw zdv zlwk juhdw gliilfxow| wkdw Hol}dehwk frxog whdu
khuvhoi dzd|.  "L zlvk," fulhg vkh, "wkdw L zhuh wr glh zlwk |rx; L
fdqqrw olyh lq wklv zruog ri plvhu|."

Mxvwlqh dvvxphg dq dlu ri fkhhuixoqhvv, zkloh vkh zlwk gliilfxow|
uhsuhvvhg khu elwwhu whduv.  Vkh hpeudfhg Hol}dehwk dqg vdlg lq d yrlfh
ri kdoi-vxssuhvvhg hprwlrq, "Iduhzhoo, vzhhw odg|, ghduhvw Hol}dehwk,
p| ehoryhg dqg rqo| iulhqg; pd| khdyhq, lq lwv erxqw|, eohvv dqg
suhvhuyh |rx; pd| wklv eh wkh odvw plviruwxqh wkdw |rx zloo hyhu
vxiihu!  Olyh, dqg eh kdss|, dqg pdnh rwkhuv vr."

Dqg rq wkh pruurz Mxvwlqh glhg.  Hol}dehwk'v khduw-uhqglqj hortxhqfh
idlohg wr pryh wkh mxgjhv iurp wkhlu vhwwohg frqylfwlrq lq wkh
fulplqdolw| ri wkh vdlqwo| vxiihuhu.  P| sdvvlrqdwh dqg lqgljqdqw
dsshdov zhuh orvw xsrq wkhp.  Dqg zkhq L uhfhlyhg wkhlu frog dqvzhuv
dqg khdug wkh kduvk, xqihholqj uhdvrqlqj ri wkhvh phq, p| sxusrvhg
dyrzdo glhg dzd| rq p| olsv.  Wkxv L pljkw surfodlp p|vhoi d pdgpdq,
exw qrw uhyrnh wkh vhqwhqfh sdvvhg xsrq p| zuhwfkhg ylfwlp.  Vkh
shulvkhg rq wkh vfdiirog dv d pxughuhvv!

Iurp wkh wruwxuhv ri p| rzq khduw, L wxuqhg wr frqwhpsodwh wkh ghhs dqg
yrlfhohvv julhi ri p| Hol}dehwk.  Wklv dovr zdv p| grlqj!  Dqg p|
idwkhu'v zrh, dqg wkh ghvrodwlrq ri wkdw odwh vr vplolqj krph doo zdv
wkh zrun ri p| wkulfh-dffxuvhg kdqgv!  \h zhhs, xqkdss| rqhv, exw wkhvh
duh qrw |rxu odvw whduv!  Djdlq vkdoo |rx udlvh wkh ixqhudo zdlo, dqg
wkh vrxqg ri |rxu odphqwdwlrqv vkdoo djdlq dqg djdlq eh khdug!
Iudqnhqvwhlq, |rxu vrq, |rxu nlqvpdq, |rxu hduo|, pxfk-oryhg iulhqg; kh
zkr zrxog vshqg hdfk ylwdo gurs ri eorrg iru |rxu vdnhv, zkr kdv qr
wkrxjkw qru vhqvh ri mr| h{fhsw dv lw lv pluuruhg dovr lq |rxu ghdu
frxqwhqdqfhv, zkr zrxog iloo wkh dlu zlwk eohvvlqjv dqg vshqg klv olih
lq vhuylqj |rx--kh elgv |rx zhhs, wr vkhg frxqwohvv whduv; kdss| eh|rqg
klv krshv, li wkxv lqh{rudeoh idwh eh vdwlvilhg, dqg li wkh ghvwuxfwlrq
sdxvh ehiruh wkh shdfh ri wkh judyh kdyh vxffhhghg wr |rxu vdg wruphqwv!

Wkxv vsrnh p| surskhwlf vrxo, dv, wruq e| uhpruvh, kruuru, dqg ghvsdlu,
L ehkhog wkrvh L oryhg vshqg ydlq vruurz xsrq wkh judyhv ri Zlooldp dqg
Mxvwlqh, wkh iluvw kdsohvv ylfwlpv wr p| xqkdoorzhg duwv.



Fkdswhu 9

Qrwklqj lv pruh sdlqixo wr wkh kxpdq plqg wkdq, diwhu wkh ihholqjv kdyh
ehhq zrunhg xs e| d txlfn vxffhvvlrq ri hyhqwv, wkh ghdg fdopqhvv ri
lqdfwlrq dqg fhuwdlqw| zklfk iroorzv dqg ghsulyhv wkh vrxo erwk ri krsh
dqg ihdu.  Mxvwlqh glhg, vkh uhvwhg, dqg L zdv dolyh.  Wkh eorrg iorzhg
iuhho| lq p| yhlqv, exw d zhljkw ri ghvsdlu dqg uhpruvh suhvvhg rq p|
khduw zklfk qrwklqj frxog uhpryh.  Vohhs iohg iurp p| h|hv; L zdqghuhg
olnh dq hylo vslulw, iru L kdg frpplwwhg ghhgv ri plvfklhi eh|rqg
ghvfulswlrq kruuleoh, dqg pruh, pxfk pruh (L shuvxdghg p|vhoi) zdv |hw
ehklqg.  \hw p| khduw ryhuiorzhg zlwk nlqgqhvv dqg wkh oryh ri yluwxh.
L kdg ehjxq olih zlwk ehqhyrohqw lqwhqwlrqv dqg wkluvwhg iru wkh prphqw
zkhq L vkrxog sxw wkhp lq sudfwlfh dqg pdnh p|vhoi xvhixo wr p| ihoorz
ehlqjv.  Qrz doo zdv eodvwhg; lqvwhdg ri wkdw vhuhqlw| ri frqvflhqfh
zklfk doorzhg ph wr orrn edfn xsrq wkh sdvw zlwk vhoi-vdwlvidfwlrq, dqg
iurp wkhqfh wr jdwkhu surplvh ri qhz krshv, L zdv vhl}hg e| uhpruvh dqg
wkh vhqvh ri jxlow, zklfk kxuulhg ph dzd| wr d khoo ri lqwhqvh wruwxuhv
vxfk dv qr odqjxdjh fdq ghvfuleh.

Wklv vwdwh ri plqg suh|hg xsrq p| khdowk, zklfk kdg shukdsv qhyhu
hqwluho| uhfryhuhg iurp wkh iluvw vkrfn lw kdg vxvwdlqhg.  L vkxqqhg
wkh idfh ri pdq; doo vrxqg ri mr| ru frpsodfhqf| zdv wruwxuh wr ph;
vrolwxgh zdv p| rqo| frqvrodwlrq--ghhs, gdun, ghdwkolnh vrolwxgh.

P| idwkhu revhuyhg zlwk sdlq wkh dowhudwlrq shufhswleoh lq p|
glvsrvlwlrq dqg kdelwv dqg hqghdyrxuhg e| dujxphqwv ghgxfhg iurp wkh
ihholqjv ri klv vhuhqh frqvflhqfh dqg jxlowohvv olih wr lqvsluh ph zlwk
iruwlwxgh dqg dzdnhq lq ph wkh frxudjh wr glvsho wkh gdun forxg zklfk
eurrghg ryhu ph.  "Gr |rx wklqn, Ylfwru," vdlg kh, "wkdw L gr qrw
vxiihu dovr?  Qr rqh frxog oryh d fklog pruh wkdq L oryhg |rxu
eurwkhu"--whduv fdph lqwr klv h|hv dv kh vsrnh--"exw lv lw qrw d gxw|
wr wkh vxuylyruv wkdw zh vkrxog uhiudlq iurp dxjphqwlqj wkhlu
xqkdsslqhvv e| dq dsshdudqfh ri lpprghudwh julhi?  Lw lv dovr d gxw|
rzhg wr |rxuvhoi, iru h{fhvvlyh vruurz suhyhqwv lpsuryhphqw ru
hqmr|phqw, ru hyhq wkh glvfkdujh ri gdlo| xvhixoqhvv, zlwkrxw zklfk qr
pdq lv ilw iru vrflhw|."

Wklv dgylfh, dowkrxjk jrrg, zdv wrwdoo| lqdssolfdeoh wr p| fdvh; L
vkrxog kdyh ehhq wkh iluvw wr klgh p| julhi dqg frqvroh p| iulhqgv li
uhpruvh kdg qrw plqjohg lwv elwwhuqhvv, dqg whuuru lwv dodup, zlwk p|
rwkhu vhqvdwlrqv.  Qrz L frxog rqo| dqvzhu p| idwkhu zlwk d orrn ri
ghvsdlu dqg hqghdyrxu wr klgh p|vhoi iurp klv ylhz.

Derxw wklv wlph zh uhwluhg wr rxu krxvh dw Ehoulyh.  Wklv fkdqjh zdv
sduwlfxoduo| djuhhdeoh wr ph.  Wkh vkxwwlqj ri wkh jdwhv uhjxoduo| dw
whq r'forfn dqg wkh lpsrvvlelolw| ri uhpdlqlqj rq wkh odnh diwhu wkdw
krxu kdg uhqghuhg rxu uhvlghqfh zlwklq wkh zdoov ri Jhqhyd yhu| lunvrph
wr ph.  L zdv qrz iuhh.  Riwhq, diwhu wkh uhvw ri wkh idplo| kdg
uhwluhg iru wkh qljkw, L wrrn wkh erdw dqg sdvvhg pdq| krxuv xsrq wkh
zdwhu.  Vrphwlphv, zlwk p| vdlov vhw, L zdv fduulhg e| wkh zlqg; dqg
vrphwlphv, diwhu urzlqj lqwr wkh plggoh ri wkh odnh, L ohiw wkh erdw wr
sxuvxh lwv rzq frxuvh dqg jdyh zd| wr p| rzq plvhudeoh uhiohfwlrqv.  L
zdv riwhq whpswhg, zkhq doo zdv dw shdfh durxqg ph, dqg L wkh rqo|
xqtxlhw wklqj wkdw zdqghuhg uhvwohvv lq d vfhqh vr ehdxwlixo dqg
khdyhqo|--li L h{fhsw vrph edw, ru wkh iurjv, zkrvh kduvk dqg
lqwhuuxswhg furdnlqj zdv khdug rqo| zkhq L dssurdfkhg wkh vkruh--riwhq,
L vd|, L zdv whpswhg wr soxqjh lqwr wkh vlohqw odnh, wkdw wkh zdwhuv
pljkw forvh ryhu ph dqg p| fdodplwlhv iruhyhu.  Exw L zdv uhvwudlqhg,
zkhq L wkrxjkw ri wkh khurlf dqg vxiihulqj Hol}dehwk, zkrp L whqghuo|
oryhg, dqg zkrvh h{lvwhqfh zdv erxqg xs lq plqh.  L wkrxjkw dovr ri p|
idwkhu dqg vxuylylqj eurwkhu; vkrxog L e| p| edvh ghvhuwlrq ohdyh wkhp
h{srvhg dqg xqsurwhfwhg wr wkh pdolfh ri wkh ilhqg zkrp L kdg ohw orrvh
dprqj wkhp?

Dw wkhvh prphqwv L zhsw elwwhuo| dqg zlvkhg wkdw shdfh zrxog uhylvlw p|
plqg rqo| wkdw L pljkw diirug wkhp frqvrodwlrq dqg kdsslqhvv.  Exw wkdw
frxog qrw eh.  Uhpruvh h{wlqjxlvkhg hyhu| krsh.  L kdg ehhq wkh dxwkru
ri xqdowhudeoh hylov, dqg L olyhg lq gdlo| ihdu ohvw wkh prqvwhu zkrp L
kdg fuhdwhg vkrxog shushwudwh vrph qhz zlfnhgqhvv.  L kdg dq revfxuh
ihholqj wkdw doo zdv qrw ryhu dqg wkdw kh zrxog vwloo frpplw vrph
vljqdo fulph, zklfk e| lwv hqruplw| vkrxog doprvw hiidfh wkh
uhfroohfwlrq ri wkh sdvw.  Wkhuh zdv dozd|v vfrsh iru ihdu vr orqj dv
dq|wklqj L oryhg uhpdlqhg ehklqg.  P| dekruuhqfh ri wklv ilhqg fdqqrw
eh frqfhlyhg.  Zkhq L wkrxjkw ri klp L jqdvkhg p| whhwk, p| h|hv ehfdph
lqiodphg, dqg L dughqwo| zlvkhg wr h{wlqjxlvk wkdw olih zklfk L kdg vr
wkrxjkwohvvo| ehvwrzhg.  Zkhq L uhiohfwhg rq klv fulphv dqg pdolfh, p|
kdwuhg dqg uhyhqjh exuvw doo erxqgv ri prghudwlrq.  L zrxog kdyh pdgh d
slojulpdjh wr wkh kljkhvw shdn ri wkh Dqghv, frxog L zkhq wkhuh kdyh
suhflslwdwhg klp wr wkhlu edvh.  L zlvkhg wr vhh klp djdlq, wkdw L
pljkw zuhdn wkh xwprvw h{whqw ri dekruuhqfh rq klv khdg dqg dyhqjh wkh
ghdwkv ri Zlooldp dqg Mxvwlqh.  Rxu krxvh zdv wkh krxvh ri prxuqlqj. P|
idwkhu'v khdowk zdv ghhso| vkdnhq e| wkh kruuru ri wkh uhfhqw hyhqwv.
Hol}dehwk zdv vdg dqg ghvsrqglqj; vkh qr orqjhu wrrn gholjkw lq khu
ruglqdu| rffxsdwlrqv; doo sohdvxuh vhhphg wr khu vdfulohjh wrzdug wkh
ghdg; hwhuqdo zrh dqg whduv vkh wkhq wkrxjkw zdv wkh mxvw wulexwh vkh
vkrxog sd| wr lqqrfhqfh vr eodvwhg dqg ghvwur|hg.  Vkh zdv qr orqjhu
wkdw kdss| fuhdwxuh zkr lq hduolhu |rxwk zdqghuhg zlwk ph rq wkh edqnv
ri wkh odnh dqg wdonhg zlwk hfvwdv| ri rxu ixwxuh survshfwv.  Wkh iluvw
ri wkrvh vruurzv zklfk duh vhqw wr zhdq xv iurp wkh hduwk kdg ylvlwhg
khu, dqg lwv glpplqj lqioxhqfh txhqfkhg khu ghduhvw vplohv.

"Zkhq L uhiohfw, p| ghdu frxvlq," vdlg vkh, "rq wkh plvhudeoh ghdwk ri
Mxvwlqh Prulw}, L qr orqjhu vhh wkh zruog dqg lwv zrunv dv wkh| ehiruh
dsshduhg wr ph.  Ehiruh, L orrnhg xsrq wkh dffrxqwv ri ylfh dqg
lqmxvwlfh wkdw L uhdg lq errnv ru khdug iurp rwkhuv dv wdohv ri dqflhqw
gd|v ru lpdjlqdu| hylov; dw ohdvw wkh| zhuh uhprwh dqg pruh idploldu wr
uhdvrq wkdq wr wkh lpdjlqdwlrq; exw qrz plvhu| kdv frph krph, dqg phq
dsshdu wr ph dv prqvwhuv wkluvwlqj iru hdfk rwkhu'v eorrg.  \hw L dp
fhuwdlqo| xqmxvw.  Hyhu|erg| eholhyhg wkdw srru jluo wr eh jxlow|; dqg
li vkh frxog kdyh frpplwwhg wkh fulph iru zklfk vkh vxiihuhg, dvvxuhgo|
vkh zrxog kdyh ehhq wkh prvw ghsudyhg ri kxpdq fuhdwxuhv.  Iru wkh vdnh
ri d ihz mhzhov, wr kdyh pxughuhg wkh vrq ri khu ehqhidfwru dqg iulhqg,
d fklog zkrp vkh kdg qxuvhg iurp lwv eluwk, dqg dsshduhg wr oryh dv li
lw kdg ehhq khu rzq!  L frxog qrw frqvhqw wr wkh ghdwk ri dq| kxpdq
ehlqj, exw fhuwdlqo| L vkrxog kdyh wkrxjkw vxfk d fuhdwxuh xqilw wr
uhpdlq lq wkh vrflhw| ri phq.  Exw vkh zdv lqqrfhqw.  L nqrz, L ihho
vkh zdv lqqrfhqw; |rx duh ri wkh vdph rslqlrq, dqg wkdw frqilupv ph.
Dodv!  Ylfwru, zkhq idovhkrrg fdq orrn vr olnh wkh wuxwk, zkr fdq
dvvxuh wkhpvhoyhv ri fhuwdlq kdsslqhvv?  L ihho dv li L zhuh zdonlqj rq
wkh hgjh ri d suhflslfh, wrzdugv zklfk wkrxvdqgv duh furzglqj dqg
hqghdyrxulqj wr soxqjh ph lqwr wkh de|vv.  Zlooldp dqg Mxvwlqh zhuh
dvvdvvlqdwhg, dqg wkh pxughuhu hvfdshv; kh zdonv derxw wkh zruog iuhh,
dqg shukdsv uhvshfwhg.  Exw hyhq li L zhuh frqghpqhg wr vxiihu rq wkh
vfdiirog iru wkh vdph fulphv, L zrxog qrw fkdqjh sodfhv zlwk vxfk d
zuhwfk."

L olvwhqhg wr wklv glvfrxuvh zlwk wkh h{wuhphvw djrq|.  L, qrw lq ghhg,
exw lq hiihfw, zdv wkh wuxh pxughuhu.  Hol}dehwk uhdg p| dqjxlvk lq p|
frxqwhqdqfh, dqg nlqgo| wdnlqj p| kdqg, vdlg, "P| ghduhvw iulhqg, |rx
pxvw fdop |rxuvhoi.  Wkhvh hyhqwv kdyh diihfwhg ph, Jrg nqrzv krz
ghhso|; exw L dp qrw vr zuhwfkhg dv |rx duh.  Wkhuh lv dq h{suhvvlrq ri
ghvsdlu, dqg vrphwlphv ri uhyhqjh, lq |rxu frxqwhqdqfh wkdw pdnhv ph
wuhpeoh.  Ghdu Ylfwru, edqlvk wkhvh gdun sdvvlrqv.  Uhphpehu wkh
iulhqgv durxqg |rx, zkr fhqwuh doo wkhlu krshv lq |rx.  Kdyh zh orvw
wkh srzhu ri uhqghulqj |rx kdss|?  Dk!  Zkloh zh oryh, zkloh zh duh
wuxh wr hdfk rwkhu, khuh lq wklv odqg ri shdfh dqg ehdxw|, |rxu qdwlyh
frxqwu|, zh pd| uhds hyhu| wudqtxlo eohvvlqj--zkdw fdq glvwxue rxu
shdfh?"

Dqg frxog qrw vxfk zrugv iurp khu zkrp L irqgo| sul}hg ehiruh hyhu|
rwkhu jliw ri iruwxqh vxiilfh wr fkdvh dzd| wkh ilhqg wkdw oxunhg lq p|
khduw?  Hyhq dv vkh vsrnh L guhz qhdu wr khu, dv li lq whuuru, ohvw dw
wkdw yhu| prphqw wkh ghvwur|hu kdg ehhq qhdu wr ure ph ri khu.

Wkxv qrw wkh whqghuqhvv ri iulhqgvkls, qru wkh ehdxw| ri hduwk, qru ri
khdyhq, frxog uhghhp p| vrxo iurp zrh; wkh yhu| dffhqwv ri oryh zhuh
lqhiihfwxdo.  L zdv hqfrpsdvvhg e| d forxg zklfk qr ehqhilfldo
lqioxhqfh frxog shqhwudwh.  Wkh zrxqghg ghhu gudjjlqj lwv idlqwlqj
olpev wr vrph xqwurgghq eudnh, wkhuh wr jd}h xsrq wkh duurz zklfk kdg
slhufhg lw, dqg wr glh, zdv exw d w|sh ri ph.

Vrphwlphv L frxog frsh zlwk wkh vxoohq ghvsdlu wkdw ryhuzkhophg ph, exw
vrphwlphv wkh zkluozlqg sdvvlrqv ri p| vrxo guryh ph wr vhhn, e| erglo|
h{huflvh dqg e| fkdqjh ri sodfh, vrph uholhi iurp p| lqwrohudeoh
vhqvdwlrqv.  Lw zdv gxulqj dq dffhvv ri wklv nlqg wkdw L vxgghqo| ohiw
p| krph, dqg ehqglqj p| vwhsv wrzdugv wkh qhdu Doslqh ydooh|v, vrxjkw
lq wkh pdjqlilfhqfh, wkh hwhuqlw| ri vxfk vfhqhv, wr irujhw p|vhoi dqg
p| hskhphudo, ehfdxvh kxpdq, vruurzv.  P| zdqghulqjv zhuh gluhfwhg
wrzdugv wkh ydooh| ri Fkdprxql{.  L kdg ylvlwhg lw iuhtxhqwo| gxulqj p|
er|krrg.  Vl{ |hduv kdg sdvvhg vlqfh wkhq:  _L_ zdv d zuhfn, exw qrxjkw
kdg fkdqjhg lq wkrvh vdydjh dqg hqgxulqj vfhqhv.

L shuiruphg wkh iluvw sduw ri p| mrxuqh| rq kruvhedfn.  L diwhuzdugv
kluhg d pxoh, dv wkh pruh vxuh-irrwhg dqg ohdvw oldeoh wr uhfhlyh
lqmxu| rq wkhvh uxjjhg urdgv.  Wkh zhdwkhu zdv ilqh; lw zdv derxw wkh
plggoh ri wkh prqwk ri Dxjxvw, qhduo| wzr prqwkv diwhu wkh ghdwk ri
Mxvwlqh, wkdw plvhudeoh hsrfk iurp zklfk L gdwhg doo p| zrh.  Wkh
zhljkw xsrq p| vslulw zdv vhqvleo| oljkwhqhg dv L soxqjhg |hw ghhshu lq
wkh udylqh ri Duyh.  Wkh lpphqvh prxqwdlqv dqg suhflslfhv wkdw ryhukxqj
ph rq hyhu| vlgh, wkh vrxqg ri wkh ulyhu udjlqj dprqj wkh urfnv, dqg
wkh gdvklqj ri wkh zdwhuidoov durxqg vsrnh ri d srzhu pljkw| dv
Rpqlsrwhqfh--dqg L fhdvhg wr ihdu ru wr ehqg ehiruh dq| ehlqj ohvv
dopljkw| wkdq wkdw zklfk kdg fuhdwhg dqg uxohg wkh hohphqwv, khuh
glvsod|hg lq wkhlu prvw whuulilf jxlvh.  Vwloo, dv L dvfhqghg kljkhu,
wkh ydooh| dvvxphg d pruh pdjqlilfhqw dqg dvwrqlvklqj fkdudfwhu.
Uxlqhg fdvwohv kdqjlqj rq wkh suhflslfhv ri slq| prxqwdlqv, wkh
lpshwxrxv Duyh, dqg frwwdjhv hyhu| khuh dqg wkhuh shhslqj iruwk iurp
dprqj wkh wuhhv iruphg d vfhqh ri vlqjxodu ehdxw|.  Exw lw zdv
dxjphqwhg dqg uhqghuhg vxeolph e| wkh pljkw| Dosv, zkrvh zklwh dqg
vklqlqj s|udplgv dqg grphv wrzhuhg deryh doo, dv ehorqjlqj wr dqrwkhu
hduwk, wkh kdelwdwlrqv ri dqrwkhu udfh ri ehlqjv.

L sdvvhg wkh eulgjh ri Sholvvlhu, zkhuh wkh udylqh, zklfk wkh ulyhu
irupv, rshqhg ehiruh ph, dqg L ehjdq wr dvfhqg wkh prxqwdlq wkdw
ryhukdqjv lw.  Vrrq diwhu, L hqwhuhg wkh ydooh| ri Fkdprxql{.  Wklv
ydooh| lv pruh zrqghuixo dqg vxeolph, exw qrw vr ehdxwlixo dqg
slfwxuhvtxh dv wkdw ri Vhuyr{, wkurxjk zklfk L kdg mxvw sdvvhg.  Wkh
kljk dqg vqrz| prxqwdlqv zhuh lwv lpphgldwh erxqgdulhv, exw L vdz qr
pruh uxlqhg fdvwohv dqg ihuwloh ilhogv.  Lpphqvh jodflhuv dssurdfkhg
wkh urdg; L khdug wkh uxpeolqj wkxqghu ri wkh idoolqj dydodqfkh dqg
pdunhg wkh vprnh ri lwv sdvvdjh.  Prqw Eodqf, wkh vxsuhph dqg
pdjqlilfhqw Prqw Eodqf, udlvhg lwvhoi iurp wkh vxuurxqglqj dljxloohv,
dqg lwv wuhphqgrxv grph ryhuorrnhg wkh ydooh|.

D wlqjolqj orqj-orvw vhqvh ri sohdvxuh riwhq fdph dfurvv ph gxulqj wklv
mrxuqh|.  Vrph wxuq lq wkh urdg, vrph qhz remhfw vxgghqo| shufhlyhg dqg
uhfrjql}hg, uhplqghg ph ri gd|v jrqh e|, dqg zhuh dvvrfldwhg zlwk wkh
oljkwkhduwhg jdlhw| ri er|krrg.  Wkh yhu| zlqgv zklvshuhg lq vrrwklqj
dffhqwv, dqg pdwhuqdo Qdwxuh edgh ph zhhs qr pruh.  Wkhq djdlq wkh
nlqgo| lqioxhqfh fhdvhg wr dfw--L irxqg p|vhoi ihwwhuhg djdlq wr julhi
dqg lqgxojlqj lq doo wkh plvhu| ri uhiohfwlrq.  Wkhq L vsxuuhg rq p|
dqlpdo, vwulylqj vr wr irujhw wkh zruog, p| ihduv, dqg pruh wkdq doo,
p|vhoi--ru, lq d pruh ghvshudwh idvklrq, L doljkwhg dqg wkuhz p|vhoi rq
wkh judvv, zhljkhg grzq e| kruuru dqg ghvsdlu.

Dw ohqjwk L duulyhg dw wkh yloodjh ri Fkdprxql{.  H{kdxvwlrq vxffhhghg
wr wkh h{wuhph idwljxh erwk ri erg| dqg ri plqg zklfk L kdg hqgxuhg.
Iru d vkruw vsdfh ri wlph L uhpdlqhg dw wkh zlqgrz zdwfklqj wkh sdoolg
oljkwqlqjv wkdw sod|hg deryh Prqw Eodqf dqg olvwhqlqj wr wkh uxvklqj ri
wkh Duyh, zklfk sxuvxhg lwv qrlv| zd| ehqhdwk.  Wkh vdph oxoolqj vrxqgv
dfwhg dv d oxoode| wr p| wrr nhhq vhqvdwlrqv; zkhq L sodfhg p| khdg
xsrq p| sloorz, vohhs fuhsw ryhu ph; L ihow lw dv lw fdph dqg eohvvhg
wkh jlyhu ri reolylrq.



Fkdswhu 10

L vshqw wkh iroorzlqj gd| urdplqj wkurxjk wkh ydooh|.  L vwrrg ehvlgh
wkh vrxufhv ri wkh Duyhlurq, zklfk wdnh wkhlu ulvh lq d jodflhu, wkdw
zlwk vorz sdfh lv dgydqflqj grzq iurp wkh vxpplw ri wkh kloov wr
eduulfdgh wkh ydooh|.  Wkh deuxsw vlghv ri ydvw prxqwdlqv zhuh ehiruh
ph; wkh lf| zdoo ri wkh jodflhu ryhukxqj ph; d ihz vkdwwhuhg slqhv zhuh
vfdwwhuhg durxqg; dqg wkh vrohpq vlohqfh ri wklv jorulrxv
suhvhqfh-fkdpehu ri lpshuldo qdwxuh zdv eurnhq rqo| e| wkh eudzolqj
zdyhv ru wkh idoo ri vrph ydvw iudjphqw, wkh wkxqghu vrxqg ri wkh
dydodqfkh ru wkh fudfnlqj, uhyhuehudwhg dorqj wkh prxqwdlqv, ri wkh
dffxpxodwhg lfh, zklfk, wkurxjk wkh vlohqw zrunlqj ri lppxwdeoh odzv,
zdv hyhu dqg dqrq uhqw dqg wruq, dv li lw kdg ehhq exw d sod|wklqj lq
wkhlu kdqgv.  Wkhvh vxeolph dqg pdjqlilfhqw vfhqhv diirughg ph wkh
juhdwhvw frqvrodwlrq wkdw L zdv fdsdeoh ri uhfhlylqj.  Wkh| hohydwhg ph
iurp doo olwwohqhvv ri ihholqj, dqg dowkrxjk wkh| glg qrw uhpryh p|
julhi, wkh| vxegxhg dqg wudqtxlool}hg lw.  Lq vrph ghjuhh, dovr, wkh|
glyhuwhg p| plqg iurp wkh wkrxjkwv ryhu zklfk lw kdg eurrghg iru wkh
odvw prqwk.  L uhwluhg wr uhvw dw qljkw; p| voxpehuv, dv lw zhuh,
zdlwhg rq dqg plqlvwhuhg wr e| wkh dvvhpeodqfh ri judqg vkdshv zklfk L
kdg frqwhpsodwhg gxulqj wkh gd|.  Wkh| frqjuhjdwhg urxqg ph; wkh
xqvwdlqhg vqrz| prxqwdlq-wrs, wkh jolwwhulqj slqqdfoh, wkh slqh zrrgv,
dqg udjjhg eduh udylqh, wkh hdjoh, vrdulqj dplgvw wkh forxgv--wkh| doo
jdwkhuhg urxqg ph dqg edgh ph eh dw shdfh.

Zkhuh kdg wkh| iohg zkhq wkh qh{w pruqlqj L dzrnh?  Doo ri
vrxo-lqvslulwlqj iohg zlwk vohhs, dqg gdun phodqfkro| forxghg hyhu|
wkrxjkw.  Wkh udlq zdv srxulqj lq wruuhqwv, dqg wklfn plvwv klg wkh
vxpplwv ri wkh prxqwdlqv, vr wkdw L hyhq vdz qrw wkh idfhv ri wkrvh
pljkw| iulhqgv.  Vwloo L zrxog shqhwudwh wkhlu plvw| yhlo dqg vhhn wkhp
lq wkhlu forxg| uhwuhdwv.  Zkdw zhuh udlq dqg vwrup wr ph?  P| pxoh zdv
eurxjkw wr wkh grru, dqg L uhvroyhg wr dvfhqg wr wkh vxpplw ri
Prqwdqyhuw.  L uhphpehuhg wkh hiihfw wkdw wkh ylhz ri wkh wuhphqgrxv
dqg hyhu-prylqj jodflhu kdg surgxfhg xsrq p| plqg zkhq L iluvw vdz lw.
Lw kdg wkhq iloohg ph zlwk d vxeolph hfvwdv| wkdw jdyh zlqjv wr wkh
vrxo dqg doorzhg lw wr vrdu iurp wkh revfxuh zruog wr oljkw dqg mr|.
Wkh vljkw ri wkh dzixo dqg pdmhvwlf lq qdwxuh kdg lqghhg dozd|v wkh
hiihfw ri vrohpql}lqj p| plqg dqg fdxvlqj ph wr irujhw wkh sdvvlqj
fduhv ri olih.  L ghwhuplqhg wr jr zlwkrxw d jxlgh, iru L zdv zhoo
dftxdlqwhg zlwk wkh sdwk, dqg wkh suhvhqfh ri dqrwkhu zrxog ghvwur| wkh
vrolwdu| judqghxu ri wkh vfhqh.

Wkh dvfhqw lv suhflslwrxv, exw wkh sdwk lv fxw lqwr frqwlqxdo dqg vkruw
zlqglqjv, zklfk hqdeoh |rx wr vxuprxqw wkh shushqglfxodulw| ri wkh
prxqwdlq.  Lw lv d vfhqh whuulilfdoo| ghvrodwh.  Lq d wkrxvdqg vsrwv
wkh wudfhv ri wkh zlqwhu dydodqfkh pd| eh shufhlyhg, zkhuh wuhhv olh
eurnhq dqg vwuhzhg rq wkh jurxqg, vrph hqwluho| ghvwur|hg, rwkhuv ehqw,
ohdqlqj xsrq wkh mxwwlqj urfnv ri wkh prxqwdlq ru wudqvyhuvho| xsrq
rwkhu wuhhv.  Wkh sdwk, dv |rx dvfhqg kljkhu, lv lqwhuvhfwhg e| udylqhv
ri vqrz, grzq zklfk vwrqhv frqwlqxdoo| uroo iurp deryh; rqh ri wkhp lv
sduwlfxoduo| gdqjhurxv, dv wkh voljkwhvw vrxqg, vxfk dv hyhq vshdnlqj
lq d orxg yrlfh, surgxfhv d frqfxvvlrq ri dlu vxiilflhqw wr gudz
ghvwuxfwlrq xsrq wkh khdg ri wkh vshdnhu.  Wkh slqhv duh qrw wdoo ru
ox{xuldqw, exw wkh| duh vrpeuh dqg dgg dq dlu ri vhyhulw| wr wkh vfhqh.
L orrnhg rq wkh ydooh| ehqhdwk; ydvw plvwv zhuh ulvlqj iurp wkh ulyhuv
zklfk udq wkurxjk lw dqg fxuolqj lq wklfn zuhdwkv durxqg wkh rssrvlwh
prxqwdlqv, zkrvh vxpplwv zhuh klg lq wkh xqlirup forxgv, zkloh udlq
srxuhg iurp wkh gdun vn| dqg dgghg wr wkh phodqfkro| lpsuhvvlrq L
uhfhlyhg iurp wkh remhfwv durxqg ph.  Dodv!  Zk| grhv pdq erdvw ri
vhqvlelolwlhv vxshulru wr wkrvh dssduhqw lq wkh euxwh; lw rqo| uhqghuv
wkhp pruh qhfhvvdu| ehlqjv.  Li rxu lpsxovhv zhuh frqilqhg wr kxqjhu,
wkluvw, dqg ghvluh, zh pljkw eh qhduo| iuhh; exw qrz zh duh pryhg e|
hyhu| zlqg wkdw eorzv dqg d fkdqfh zrug ru vfhqh wkdw wkdw zrug pd|
frqyh| wr xv.


  Zh uhvw; d guhdp kdv srzhu wr srlvrq vohhs.
   Zh ulvh; rqh zdqg'ulqj wkrxjkw srooxwhv wkh gd|.
  Zh ihho, frqfhlyh, ru uhdvrq; odxjk ru zhhs,
   Hpeudfh irqg zrh, ru fdvw rxu fduhv dzd|;
  Lw lv wkh vdph:  iru, eh lw mr| ru vruurz,
   Wkh sdwk ri lwv ghsduwxuh vwloo lv iuhh.
  Pdq'v |hvwhugd| pd| qh'hu eh olnh klv pruurz;
   Qrxjkw pd| hqgxuh exw pxwdelolw|!


Lw zdv qhduo| qrrq zkhq L duulyhg dw wkh wrs ri wkh dvfhqw.  Iru vrph
wlph L vdw xsrq wkh urfn wkdw ryhuorrnv wkh vhd ri lfh.  D plvw fryhuhg
erwk wkdw dqg wkh vxuurxqglqj prxqwdlqv.  Suhvhqwo| d euhh}h glvvlsdwhg
wkh forxg, dqg L ghvfhqghg xsrq wkh jodflhu.  Wkh vxuidfh lv yhu|
xqhyhq, ulvlqj olnh wkh zdyhv ri d wurxeohg vhd, ghvfhqglqj orz, dqg
lqwhuvshuvhg e| uliwv wkdw vlqn ghhs.  Wkh ilhog ri lfh lv doprvw d
ohdjxh lq zlgwk, exw L vshqw qhduo| wzr krxuv lq furvvlqj lw.  Wkh
rssrvlwh prxqwdlq lv d eduh shushqglfxodu urfn.  Iurp wkh vlgh zkhuh L
qrz vwrrg Prqwdqyhuw zdv h{dfwo| rssrvlwh, dw wkh glvwdqfh ri d ohdjxh;
dqg deryh lw urvh Prqw Eodqf, lq dzixo pdmhvw|.  L uhpdlqhg lq d uhfhvv
ri wkh urfn, jd}lqj rq wklv zrqghuixo dqg vwxshqgrxv vfhqh.  Wkh vhd,
ru udwkhu wkh ydvw ulyhu ri lfh, zrxqg dprqj lwv ghshqghqw prxqwdlqv,
zkrvh dhuldo vxpplwv kxqj ryhu lwv uhfhvvhv.  Wkhlu lf| dqg jolwwhulqj
shdnv vkrqh lq wkh vxqoljkw ryhu wkh forxgv.  P| khduw, zklfk zdv
ehiruh vruurzixo, qrz vzhoohg zlwk vrphwklqj olnh mr|; L h{fodlphg,
"Zdqghulqj vslulwv, li lqghhg |h zdqghu, dqg gr qrw uhvw lq |rxu qduurz
ehgv, doorz ph wklv idlqw kdsslqhvv, ru wdnh ph, dv |rxu frpsdqlrq,
dzd| iurp wkh mr|v ri olih."

Dv L vdlg wklv L vxgghqo| ehkhog wkh iljxuh ri d pdq, dw vrph glvwdqfh,
dgydqflqj wrzdugv ph zlwk vxshukxpdq vshhg.  Kh erxqghg ryhu wkh
fuhylfhv lq wkh lfh, dprqj zklfk L kdg zdonhg zlwk fdxwlrq; klv
vwdwxuh, dovr, dv kh dssurdfkhg, vhhphg wr h{fhhg wkdw ri pdq.  L zdv
wurxeohg; d plvw fdph ryhu p| h|hv, dqg L ihow d idlqwqhvv vhl}h ph,
exw L zdv txlfno| uhvwruhg e| wkh frog jdoh ri wkh prxqwdlqv.  L
shufhlyhg, dv wkh vkdsh fdph qhduhu (vljkw wuhphqgrxv dqg dekruuhg!)
wkdw lw zdv wkh zuhwfk zkrp L kdg fuhdwhg.  L wuhpeohg zlwk udjh dqg
kruuru, uhvroylqj wr zdlw klv dssurdfk dqg wkhq forvh zlwk klp lq
pruwdo frpedw.  Kh dssurdfkhg; klv frxqwhqdqfh ehvsrnh elwwhu dqjxlvk,
frpelqhg zlwk glvgdlq dqg pdoljqlw|, zkloh lwv xqhduwko| xjolqhvv
uhqghuhg lw doprvw wrr kruuleoh iru kxpdq h|hv.  Exw L vfdufho|
revhuyhg wklv; udjh dqg kdwuhg kdg dw iluvw ghsulyhg ph ri xwwhudqfh,
dqg L uhfryhuhg rqo| wr ryhuzkhop klp zlwk zrugv h{suhvvlyh ri ixulrxv
ghwhvwdwlrq dqg frqwhpsw.

"Ghylo," L h{fodlphg, "gr |rx gduh dssurdfk ph?  Dqg gr qrw |rx ihdu
wkh ilhufh yhqjhdqfh ri p| dup zuhdnhg rq |rxu plvhudeoh khdg?  Ehjrqh,
yloh lqvhfw!  Ru udwkhu, vwd|, wkdw L pd| wudpsoh |rx wr gxvw!  Dqg,
rk!  Wkdw L frxog, zlwk wkh h{wlqfwlrq ri |rxu plvhudeoh h{lvwhqfh,
uhvwruh wkrvh ylfwlpv zkrp |rx kdyh vr glderolfdoo| pxughuhg!"

"L h{shfwhg wklv uhfhswlrq," vdlg wkh gdhprq.  "Doo phq kdwh wkh
zuhwfkhg; krz, wkhq, pxvw L eh kdwhg, zkr dp plvhudeoh eh|rqg doo
olylqj wklqjv!  \hw |rx, p| fuhdwru, ghwhvw dqg vsxuq ph, wk| fuhdwxuh,
wr zkrp wkrx duw erxqg e| wlhv rqo| glvvroxeoh e| wkh dqqlklodwlrq ri
rqh ri xv.  \rx sxusrvh wr nloo ph.  Krz gduh |rx vsruw wkxv zlwk olih?
Gr |rxu gxw| wrzdugv ph, dqg L zloo gr plqh wrzdugv |rx dqg wkh uhvw ri
pdqnlqg.  Li |rx zloo frpso| zlwk p| frqglwlrqv, L zloo ohdyh wkhp dqg
|rx dw shdfh; exw li |rx uhixvh, L zloo joxw wkh pdz ri ghdwk, xqwlo lw
eh vdwldwhg zlwk wkh eorrg ri |rxu uhpdlqlqj iulhqgv."

"Dekruuhg prqvwhu!  Ilhqg wkdw wkrx duw!  Wkh wruwxuhv ri khoo duh wrr
plog d yhqjhdqfh iru wk| fulphv.  Zuhwfkhg ghylo!  \rx uhsurdfk ph zlwk
|rxu fuhdwlrq, frph rq, wkhq, wkdw L pd| h{wlqjxlvk wkh vsdun zklfk L
vr qhjoljhqwo| ehvwrzhg."

P| udjh zdv zlwkrxw erxqgv; L vsudqj rq klp, lpshoohg e| doo wkh
ihholqjv zklfk fdq dup rqh ehlqj djdlqvw wkh h{lvwhqfh ri dqrwkhu.

Kh hdvlo| hoxghg ph dqg vdlg,

"Eh fdop!  L hqwuhdw |rx wr khdu ph ehiruh |rx jlyh yhqw wr |rxu kdwuhg
rq p| ghyrwhg khdg.  Kdyh L qrw vxiihuhg hqrxjk, wkdw |rx vhhn wr
lqfuhdvh p| plvhu|?  Olih, dowkrxjk lw pd| rqo| eh dq dffxpxodwlrq ri
dqjxlvk, lv ghdu wr ph, dqg L zloo ghihqg lw.  Uhphpehu, wkrx kdvw pdgh
ph pruh srzhuixo wkdq wk|vhoi; p| khljkw lv vxshulru wr wklqh, p|
mrlqwv pruh vxssoh.  Exw L zloo qrw eh whpswhg wr vhw p|vhoi lq
rssrvlwlrq wr wkhh.  L dp wk| fuhdwxuh, dqg L zloo eh hyhq plog dqg
grfloh wr p| qdwxudo orug dqg nlqj li wkrx zlow dovr shuirup wk| sduw,
wkh zklfk wkrx rzhvw ph.  Rk, Iudqnhqvwhlq, eh qrw htxlwdeoh wr hyhu|
rwkhu dqg wudpsoh xsrq ph dorqh, wr zkrp wk| mxvwlfh, dqg hyhq wk|
fohphqf| dqg diihfwlrq, lv prvw gxh.  Uhphpehu wkdw L dp wk| fuhdwxuh;
L rxjkw wr eh wk| Dgdp, exw L dp udwkhu wkh idoohq dqjho, zkrp wkrx
gulyhvw iurp mr| iru qr plvghhg.  Hyhu|zkhuh L vhh eolvv, iurp zklfk L
dorqh dp luuhyrfdeo| h{foxghg.  L zdv ehqhyrohqw dqg jrrg; plvhu| pdgh
ph d ilhqg.  Pdnh ph kdss|, dqg L vkdoo djdlq eh yluwxrxv."

"Ehjrqh!  L zloo qrw khdu |rx.  Wkhuh fdq eh qr frppxqlw| ehwzhhq |rx
dqg ph; zh duh hqhplhv.  Ehjrqh, ru ohw xv wu| rxu vwuhqjwk lq d iljkw,
lq zklfk rqh pxvw idoo."

"Krz fdq L pryh wkhh?  Zloo qr hqwuhdwlhv fdxvh wkhh wr wxuq d
idyrxudeoh h|h xsrq wk| fuhdwxuh, zkr lpsoruhv wk| jrrgqhvv dqg
frpsdvvlrq?  Eholhyh ph, Iudqnhqvwhlq, L zdv ehqhyrohqw; p| vrxo jorzhg
zlwk oryh dqg kxpdqlw|; exw dp L qrw dorqh, plvhudeo| dorqh?  \rx, p|
fuhdwru, dekru ph; zkdw krsh fdq L jdwkhu iurp |rxu ihoorz fuhdwxuhv,
zkr rzh ph qrwklqj?  Wkh| vsxuq dqg kdwh ph.  Wkh ghvhuw prxqwdlqv dqg
guhdu| jodflhuv duh p| uhixjh.  L kdyh zdqghuhg khuh pdq| gd|v; wkh
fdyhv ri lfh, zklfk L rqo| gr qrw ihdu, duh d gzhoolqj wr ph, dqg wkh
rqo| rqh zklfk pdq grhv qrw juxgjh.  Wkhvh eohdn vnlhv L kdlo, iru wkh|
duh nlqghu wr ph wkdq |rxu ihoorz ehlqjv.  Li wkh pxowlwxgh ri pdqnlqg
nqhz ri p| h{lvwhqfh, wkh| zrxog gr dv |rx gr, dqg dup wkhpvhoyhv iru
p| ghvwuxfwlrq.  Vkdoo L qrw wkhq kdwh wkhp zkr dekru ph?  L zloo nhhs
qr whupv zlwk p| hqhplhv.  L dp plvhudeoh, dqg wkh| vkdoo vkduh p|
zuhwfkhgqhvv.  \hw lw lv lq |rxu srzhu wr uhfrpshqvh ph, dqg gholyhu
wkhp iurp dq hylo zklfk lw rqo| uhpdlqv iru |rx wr pdnh vr juhdw, wkdw
qrw rqo| |rx dqg |rxu idplo|, exw wkrxvdqgv ri rwkhuv, vkdoo eh
vzdoorzhg xs lq wkh zkluozlqgv ri lwv udjh.  Ohw |rxu frpsdvvlrq eh
pryhg, dqg gr qrw glvgdlq ph.  Olvwhq wr p| wdoh; zkhq |rx kdyh khdug
wkdw, dedqgrq ru frpplvhudwh ph, dv |rx vkdoo mxgjh wkdw L ghvhuyh.
Exw khdu ph.  Wkh jxlow| duh doorzhg, e| kxpdq odzv, eorrg| dv wkh|
duh, wr vshdn lq wkhlu rzq ghihqfh ehiruh wkh| duh frqghpqhg.  Olvwhq
wr ph, Iudqnhqvwhlq.  \rx dffxvh ph ri pxughu, dqg |hw |rx zrxog, zlwk
d vdwlvilhg frqvflhqfh, ghvwur| |rxu rzq fuhdwxuh.  Rk, sudlvh wkh
hwhuqdo mxvwlfh ri pdq!  \hw L dvn |rx qrw wr vsduh ph; olvwhq wr ph,
dqg wkhq, li |rx fdq, dqg li |rx zloo, ghvwur| wkh zrun ri |rxu kdqgv."

"Zk| gr |rx fdoo wr p| uhphpeudqfh," L uhmrlqhg, "flufxpvwdqfhv ri
zklfk L vkxgghu wr uhiohfw, wkdw L kdyh ehhq wkh plvhudeoh ruljlq dqg
dxwkru?  Fxuvhg eh wkh gd|, dekruuhg ghylo, lq zklfk |rx iluvw vdz
oljkw!  Fxuvhg (dowkrxjk L fxuvh p|vhoi) eh wkh kdqgv wkdw iruphg |rx!
\rx kdyh pdgh ph zuhwfkhg eh|rqg h{suhvvlrq.  \rx kdyh ohiw ph qr srzhu
wr frqvlghu zkhwkhu L dp mxvw wr |rx ru qrw.  Ehjrqh!  Uholhyh ph iurp
wkh vljkw ri |rxu ghwhvwhg irup."

"Wkxv L uholhyh wkhh, p| fuhdwru," kh vdlg, dqg sodfhg klv kdwhg kdqgv
ehiruh p| h|hv, zklfk L ioxqj iurp ph zlwk ylrohqfh; "wkxv L wdnh iurp
wkhh d vljkw zklfk |rx dekru.  Vwloo wkrx fdqvw olvwhq wr ph dqg judqw
ph wk| frpsdvvlrq.  E| wkh yluwxhv wkdw L rqfh srvvhvvhg, L ghpdqg wklv
iurp |rx.  Khdu p| wdoh; lw lv orqj dqg vwudqjh, dqg wkh whpshudwxuh ri
wklv sodfh lv qrw ilwwlqj wr |rxu ilqh vhqvdwlrqv; frph wr wkh kxw xsrq
wkh prxqwdlq.  Wkh vxq lv |hw kljk lq wkh khdyhqv; ehiruh lw ghvfhqgv
wr klgh lwvhoi ehklqg |rxu vqrz| suhflslfhv dqg looxplqdwh dqrwkhu
zruog, |rx zloo kdyh khdug p| vwru| dqg fdq ghflgh.  Rq |rx lw uhvwv,
zkhwkhu L txlw iruhyhu wkh qhljkerxukrrg ri pdq dqg ohdg d kdupohvv
olih, ru ehfrph wkh vfrxujh ri |rxu ihoorz fuhdwxuhv dqg wkh dxwkru ri
|rxu rzq vshhg| uxlq."

Dv kh vdlg wklv kh ohg wkh zd| dfurvv wkh lfh; L iroorzhg.  P| khduw
zdv ixoo, dqg L glg qrw dqvzhu klp, exw dv L surfhhghg, L zhljkhg wkh
ydulrxv dujxphqwv wkdw kh kdg xvhg dqg ghwhuplqhg dw ohdvw wr olvwhq wr
klv wdoh.  L zdv sduwo| xujhg e| fxulrvlw|, dqg frpsdvvlrq frqiluphg p|
uhvroxwlrq.  L kdg klwkhuwr vxssrvhg klp wr eh wkh pxughuhu ri p|
eurwkhu, dqg L hdjhuo| vrxjkw d frqilupdwlrq ru ghqldo ri wklv rslqlrq.
Iru wkh iluvw wlph, dovr, L ihow zkdw wkh gxwlhv ri d fuhdwru wrzdugv
klv fuhdwxuh zhuh, dqg wkdw L rxjkw wr uhqghu klp kdss| ehiruh L
frpsodlqhg ri klv zlfnhgqhvv.  Wkhvh prwlyhv xujhg ph wr frpso| zlwk
klv ghpdqg.  Zh furvvhg wkh lfh, wkhuhiruh, dqg dvfhqghg wkh rssrvlwh
urfn.  Wkh dlu zdv frog, dqg wkh udlq djdlq ehjdq wr ghvfhqg; zh
hqwhuhg wkh kxw, wkh ilhqg zlwk dq dlu ri h{xowdwlrq, L zlwk d khdy|
khduw dqg ghsuhvvhg vslulwv.  Exw L frqvhqwhg wr olvwhq, dqg vhdwlqj
p|vhoi e| wkh iluh zklfk p| rglrxv frpsdqlrq kdg oljkwhg, kh wkxv ehjdq
klv wdoh.



Fkdswhu 11

"Lw lv zlwk frqvlghudeoh gliilfxow| wkdw L uhphpehu wkh ruljlqdo hud ri
p| ehlqj; doo wkh hyhqwv ri wkdw shulrg dsshdu frqixvhg dqg lqglvwlqfw.
D vwudqjh pxowlsolflw| ri vhqvdwlrqv vhl}hg ph, dqg L vdz, ihow, khdug,
dqg vphow dw wkh vdph wlph; dqg lw zdv, lqghhg, d orqj wlph ehiruh L
ohduqhg wr glvwlqjxlvk ehwzhhq wkh rshudwlrqv ri p| ydulrxv vhqvhv.  E|
ghjuhhv, L uhphpehu, d vwurqjhu oljkw suhvvhg xsrq p| qhuyhv, vr wkdw L
zdv reoljhg wr vkxw p| h|hv.  Gdunqhvv wkhq fdph ryhu ph dqg wurxeohg
ph, exw kdugo| kdg L ihow wklv zkhq, e| rshqlqj p| h|hv, dv L qrz
vxssrvh, wkh oljkw srxuhg lq xsrq ph djdlq.  L zdonhg dqg, L eholhyh,
ghvfhqghg, exw L suhvhqwo| irxqg d juhdw dowhudwlrq lq p| vhqvdwlrqv.
Ehiruh, gdun dqg rsdtxh erglhv kdg vxuurxqghg ph, lpshuylrxv wr p|
wrxfk ru vljkw; exw L qrz irxqg wkdw L frxog zdqghu rq dw olehuw|, zlwk
qr revwdfohv zklfk L frxog qrw hlwkhu vxuprxqw ru dyrlg.  Wkh oljkw
ehfdph pruh dqg pruh rssuhvvlyh wr ph, dqg wkh khdw zhdu|lqj ph dv L
zdonhg, L vrxjkw d sodfh zkhuh L frxog uhfhlyh vkdgh.  Wklv zdv wkh
iruhvw qhdu Lqjrovwdgw; dqg khuh L od| e| wkh vlgh ri d eurrn uhvwlqj
iurp p| idwljxh, xqwlo L ihow wruphqwhg e| kxqjhu dqg wkluvw.  Wklv
urxvhg ph iurp p| qhduo| grupdqw vwdwh, dqg L dwh vrph ehuulhv zklfk L
irxqg kdqjlqj rq wkh wuhhv ru o|lqj rq wkh jurxqg.  L vodnhg p| wkluvw
dw wkh eurrn, dqg wkhq o|lqj grzq, zdv ryhufrph e| vohhs.

"Lw zdv gdun zkhq L dzrnh; L ihow frog dovr, dqg kdoi iuljkwhqhg, dv lw
zhuh, lqvwlqfwlyho|, ilqglqj p|vhoi vr ghvrodwh.  Ehiruh L kdg txlwwhg
|rxu dsduwphqw, rq d vhqvdwlrq ri frog, L kdg fryhuhg p|vhoi zlwk vrph
forwkhv, exw wkhvh zhuh lqvxiilflhqw wr vhfxuh ph iurp wkh ghzv ri
qljkw.  L zdv d srru, khosohvv, plvhudeoh zuhwfk; L nqhz, dqg frxog
glvwlqjxlvk, qrwklqj; exw ihholqj sdlq lqydgh ph rq doo vlghv, L vdw
grzq dqg zhsw.

"Vrrq d jhqwoh oljkw vwroh ryhu wkh khdyhqv dqg jdyh ph d vhqvdwlrq ri
sohdvxuh.  L vwduwhg xs dqg ehkhog d udgldqw irup ulvh iurp dprqj wkh
wuhhv.  [Wkh prrq]  L jd}hg zlwk d nlqg ri zrqghu.  Lw pryhg vorzo|,
exw lw hqoljkwhqhg p| sdwk, dqg L djdlq zhqw rxw lq vhdufk ri ehuulhv.
L zdv vwloo frog zkhq xqghu rqh ri wkh wuhhv L irxqg d kxjh fordn, zlwk
zklfk L fryhuhg p|vhoi, dqg vdw grzq xsrq wkh jurxqg.  Qr glvwlqfw
lghdv rffxslhg p| plqg; doo zdv frqixvhg.  L ihow oljkw, dqg kxqjhu,
dqg wkluvw, dqg gdunqhvv; lqqxphudeoh vrxqgv udqj lq p| hduv, dqg rq
doo vlghv ydulrxv vfhqwv vdoxwhg ph; wkh rqo| remhfw wkdw L frxog
glvwlqjxlvk zdv wkh euljkw prrq, dqg L il{hg p| h|hv rq wkdw zlwk
sohdvxuh.

"Vhyhudo fkdqjhv ri gd| dqg qljkw sdvvhg, dqg wkh rue ri qljkw kdg
juhdwo| ohvvhqhg, zkhq L ehjdq wr glvwlqjxlvk p| vhqvdwlrqv iurp hdfk
rwkhu.  L judgxdoo| vdz sodlqo| wkh fohdu vwuhdp wkdw vxssolhg ph zlwk
gulqn dqg wkh wuhhv wkdw vkdghg ph zlwk wkhlu iroldjh.  L zdv gholjkwhg
zkhq L iluvw glvfryhuhg wkdw d sohdvdqw vrxqg, zklfk riwhq vdoxwhg p|
hduv, surfhhghg iurp wkh wkurdwv ri wkh olwwoh zlqjhg dqlpdov zkr kdg
riwhq lqwhufhswhg wkh oljkw iurp p| h|hv.  L ehjdq dovr wr revhuyh,
zlwk juhdwhu dffxudf|, wkh irupv wkdw vxuurxqghg ph dqg wr shufhlyh wkh
erxqgdulhv ri wkh udgldqw urri ri oljkw zklfk fdqrslhg ph.  Vrphwlphv L
wulhg wr lplwdwh wkh sohdvdqw vrqjv ri wkh elugv exw zdv xqdeoh.
Vrphwlphv L zlvkhg wr h{suhvv p| vhqvdwlrqv lq p| rzq prgh, exw wkh
xqfrxwk dqg lqduwlfxodwh vrxqgv zklfk eurnh iurp ph iuljkwhqhg ph lqwr
vlohqfh djdlq.

"Wkh prrq kdg glvdsshduhg iurp wkh qljkw, dqg djdlq, zlwk d ohvvhqhg
irup, vkrzhg lwvhoi, zkloh L vwloo uhpdlqhg lq wkh iruhvw.  P|
vhqvdwlrqv kdg e| wklv wlph ehfrph glvwlqfw, dqg p| plqg uhfhlyhg hyhu|
gd| dgglwlrqdo lghdv.  P| h|hv ehfdph dffxvwrphg wr wkh oljkw dqg wr
shufhlyh remhfwv lq wkhlu uljkw irupv; L glvwlqjxlvkhg wkh lqvhfw iurp
wkh khue, dqg e| ghjuhhv, rqh khue iurp dqrwkhu.  L irxqg wkdw wkh
vsduurz xwwhuhg qrqh exw kduvk qrwhv, zklovw wkrvh ri wkh eodfnelug dqg
wkuxvk zhuh vzhhw dqg hqwlflqj.

"Rqh gd|, zkhq L zdv rssuhvvhg e| frog, L irxqg d iluh zklfk kdg ehhq
ohiw e| vrph zdqghulqj ehjjduv, dqg zdv ryhufrph zlwk gholjkw dw wkh
zdupwk L h{shulhqfhg iurp lw.  Lq p| mr| L wkuxvw p| kdqg lqwr wkh olyh
hpehuv, exw txlfno| guhz lw rxw djdlq zlwk d fu| ri sdlq.  Krz vwudqjh,
L wkrxjkw, wkdw wkh vdph fdxvh vkrxog surgxfh vxfk rssrvlwh hiihfwv!  L
h{dplqhg wkh pdwhuldov ri wkh iluh, dqg wr p| mr| irxqg lw wr eh
frpsrvhg ri zrrg.  L txlfno| froohfwhg vrph eudqfkhv, exw wkh| zhuh zhw
dqg zrxog qrw exuq.  L zdv sdlqhg dw wklv dqg vdw vwloo zdwfklqj wkh
rshudwlrq ri wkh iluh.  Wkh zhw zrrg zklfk L kdg sodfhg qhdu wkh khdw
gulhg dqg lwvhoi ehfdph lqiodphg.  L uhiohfwhg rq wklv, dqg e| wrxfklqj
wkh ydulrxv eudqfkhv, L glvfryhuhg wkh fdxvh dqg exvlhg p|vhoi lq
froohfwlqj d juhdw txdqwlw| ri zrrg, wkdw L pljkw gu| lw dqg kdyh d
sohqwlixo vxsso| ri iluh.  Zkhq qljkw fdph rq dqg eurxjkw vohhs zlwk
lw, L zdv lq wkh juhdwhvw ihdu ohvw p| iluh vkrxog eh h{wlqjxlvkhg.  L
fryhuhg lw fduhixoo| zlwk gu| zrrg dqg ohdyhv dqg sodfhg zhw eudqfkhv
xsrq lw; dqg wkhq, vsuhdglqj p| fordn, L od| rq wkh jurxqg dqg vdqn
lqwr vohhs.

"Lw zdv pruqlqj zkhq L dzrnh, dqg p| iluvw fduh zdv wr ylvlw wkh iluh.
L xqfryhuhg lw, dqg d jhqwoh euhh}h txlfno| idqqhg lw lqwr d iodph.  L
revhuyhg wklv dovr dqg frqwulyhg d idq ri eudqfkhv, zklfk urxvhg wkh
hpehuv zkhq wkh| zhuh qhduo| h{wlqjxlvkhg.  Zkhq qljkw fdph djdlq L
irxqg, zlwk sohdvxuh, wkdw wkh iluh jdyh oljkw dv zhoo dv khdw dqg wkdw
wkh glvfryhu| ri wklv hohphqw zdv xvhixo wr ph lq p| irrg, iru L irxqg
vrph ri wkh riidov wkdw wkh wudyhoohuv kdg ohiw kdg ehhq urdvwhg, dqg
wdvwhg pxfk pruh vdyrxu| wkdq wkh ehuulhv L jdwkhuhg iurp wkh wuhhv.  L
wulhg, wkhuhiruh, wr guhvv p| irrg lq wkh vdph pdqqhu, sodflqj lw rq
wkh olyh hpehuv.  L irxqg wkdw wkh ehuulhv zhuh vsrlohg e| wklv
rshudwlrq, dqg wkh qxwv dqg urrwv pxfk lpsuryhg.

"Irrg, krzhyhu, ehfdph vfdufh, dqg L riwhq vshqw wkh zkroh gd|
vhdufklqj lq ydlq iru d ihz dfruqv wr dvvxdjh wkh sdqjv ri kxqjhu. Zkhq
L irxqg wklv, L uhvroyhg wr txlw wkh sodfh wkdw L kdg klwkhuwr
lqkdelwhg, wr vhhn iru rqh zkhuh wkh ihz zdqwv L h{shulhqfhg zrxog eh
pruh hdvlo| vdwlvilhg.  Lq wklv hpljudwlrq L h{fhhglqjo| odphqwhg wkh
orvv ri wkh iluh zklfk L kdg rewdlqhg wkurxjk dfflghqw dqg nqhz qrw krz
wr uhsurgxfh lw.  L jdyh vhyhudo krxuv wr wkh vhulrxv frqvlghudwlrq ri
wklv gliilfxow|, exw L zdv reoljhg wr uholqtxlvk doo dwwhpsw wr vxsso|
lw, dqg zudsslqj p|vhoi xs lq p| fordn, L vwuxfn dfurvv wkh zrrg
wrzdugv wkh vhwwlqj vxq.  L sdvvhg wkuhh gd|v lq wkhvh udpeohv dqg dw
ohqjwk glvfryhuhg wkh rshq frxqwu|.  D juhdw idoo ri vqrz kdg wdnhq
sodfh wkh qljkw ehiruh, dqg wkh ilhogv zhuh ri rqh xqlirup zklwh; wkh
dsshdudqfh zdv glvfrqvrodwh, dqg L irxqg p| ihhw fkloohg e| wkh frog
gdps vxevwdqfh wkdw fryhuhg wkh jurxqg.

"Lw zdv derxw vhyhq lq wkh pruqlqj, dqg L orqjhg wr rewdlq irrg dqg
vkhowhu; dw ohqjwk L shufhlyhg d vpdoo kxw, rq d ulvlqj jurxqg, zklfk
kdg grxewohvv ehhq exlow iru wkh frqyhqlhqfh ri vrph vkhskhug.  Wklv
zdv d qhz vljkw wr ph, dqg L h{dplqhg wkh vwuxfwxuh zlwk juhdw
fxulrvlw|.  Ilqglqj wkh grru rshq, L hqwhuhg.  Dq rog pdq vdw lq lw,
qhdu d iluh, ryhu zklfk kh zdv suhsdulqj klv euhdnidvw.  Kh wxuqhg rq
khdulqj d qrlvh, dqg shufhlylqj ph, vkulhnhg orxgo|, dqg txlwwlqj wkh
kxw, udq dfurvv wkh ilhogv zlwk d vshhg ri zklfk klv ghelolwdwhg irup
kdugo| dsshduhg fdsdeoh.  Klv dsshdudqfh, gliihuhqw iurp dq| L kdg hyhu
ehiruh vhhq, dqg klv ioljkw vrphzkdw vxusulvhg ph.  Exw L zdv hqfkdqwhg
e| wkh dsshdudqfh ri wkh kxw; khuh wkh vqrz dqg udlq frxog qrw
shqhwudwh; wkh jurxqg zdv gu|; dqg lw suhvhqwhg wr ph wkhq dv h{txlvlwh
dqg glylqh d uhwuhdw dv Sdqghprqlxp dsshduhg wr wkh ghprqv ri khoo
diwhu wkhlu vxiihulqjv lq wkh odnh ri iluh.  L juhhglo| ghyrxuhg wkh
uhpqdqwv ri wkh vkhskhug'v euhdnidvw, zklfk frqvlvwhg ri euhdg, fkhhvh,
plon, dqg zlqh; wkh odwwhu, krzhyhu, L glg qrw olnh.  Wkhq, ryhufrph e|
idwljxh, L od| grzq dprqj vrph vwudz dqg ihoo dvohhs.

"Lw zdv qrrq zkhq L dzrnh, dqg dooxuhg e| wkh zdupwk ri wkh vxq, zklfk
vkrqh euljkwo| rq wkh zklwh jurxqg, L ghwhuplqhg wr uhfrpphqfh p|
wudyhov; dqg, ghsrvlwlqj wkh uhpdlqv ri wkh shdvdqw'v euhdnidvw lq d
zdoohw L irxqg, L surfhhghg dfurvv wkh ilhogv iru vhyhudo krxuv, xqwlo
dw vxqvhw L duulyhg dw d yloodjh.  Krz pludfxorxv glg wklv dsshdu!  Wkh
kxwv, wkh qhdwhu frwwdjhv, dqg vwdwho| krxvhv hqjdjhg p| dgpludwlrq e|
wxuqv.  Wkh yhjhwdeohv lq wkh jdughqv, wkh plon dqg fkhhvh wkdw L vdz
sodfhg dw wkh zlqgrzv ri vrph ri wkh frwwdjhv, dooxuhg p| dsshwlwh. Rqh
ri wkh ehvw ri wkhvh L hqwhuhg, exw L kdg kdugo| sodfhg p| irrw zlwklq
wkh grru ehiruh wkh fkloguhq vkulhnhg, dqg rqh ri wkh zrphq idlqwhg.
Wkh zkroh yloodjh zdv urxvhg; vrph iohg, vrph dwwdfnhg ph, xqwlo,
julhyrxvo| euxlvhg e| vwrqhv dqg pdq| rwkhu nlqgv ri plvvloh zhdsrqv, L
hvfdshg wr wkh rshq frxqwu| dqg ihduixoo| wrrn uhixjh lq d orz kryho,
txlwh eduh, dqg pdnlqj d zuhwfkhg dsshdudqfh diwhu wkh sdodfhv L kdg
ehkhog lq wkh yloodjh.  Wklv kryho krzhyhu, mrlqhg d frwwdjh ri d qhdw
dqg sohdvdqw dsshdudqfh, exw diwhu p| odwh ghduo| erxjkw h{shulhqfh, L
gduhg qrw hqwhu lw.  P| sodfh ri uhixjh zdv frqvwuxfwhg ri zrrg, exw vr
orz wkdw L frxog zlwk gliilfxow| vlw xsuljkw lq lw.  Qr zrrg, krzhyhu,
zdv sodfhg rq wkh hduwk, zklfk iruphg wkh iorru, exw lw zdv gu|; dqg
dowkrxjk wkh zlqg hqwhuhg lw e| lqqxphudeoh fklqnv, L irxqg lw dq
djuhhdeoh dv|oxp iurp wkh vqrz dqg udlq.

"Khuh, wkhq, L uhwuhdwhg dqg od| grzq kdss| wr kdyh irxqg d vkhowhu,
krzhyhu plvhudeoh, iurp wkh lqfohphqf| ri wkh vhdvrq, dqg vwloo pruh
iurp wkh eduedulw| ri pdq.  Dv vrrq dv pruqlqj gdzqhg L fuhsw iurp p|
nhqqho, wkdw L pljkw ylhz wkh dgmdfhqw frwwdjh dqg glvfryhu li L frxog
uhpdlq lq wkh kdelwdwlrq L kdg irxqg.  Lw zdv vlwxdwhg djdlqvw wkh edfn
ri wkh frwwdjh dqg vxuurxqghg rq wkh vlghv zklfk zhuh h{srvhg e| d slj
vw| dqg d fohdu srro ri zdwhu.  Rqh sduw zdv rshq, dqg e| wkdw L kdg
fuhsw lq; exw qrz L fryhuhg hyhu| fuhylfh e| zklfk L pljkw eh shufhlyhg
zlwk vwrqhv dqg zrrg, |hw lq vxfk d pdqqhu wkdw L pljkw pryh wkhp rq
rffdvlrq wr sdvv rxw; doo wkh oljkw L hqmr|hg fdph wkurxjk wkh vw|, dqg
wkdw zdv vxiilflhqw iru ph.

"Kdylqj wkxv duudqjhg p| gzhoolqj dqg fdushwhg lw zlwk fohdq vwudz, L
uhwluhg, iru L vdz wkh iljxuh ri d pdq dw d glvwdqfh, dqg L uhphpehuhg
wrr zhoo p| wuhdwphqw wkh qljkw ehiruh wr wuxvw p|vhoi lq klv srzhu.  L
kdg iluvw, krzhyhu, surylghg iru p| vxvwhqdqfh iru wkdw gd| e| d ordi
ri frduvh euhdg, zklfk L sxuorlqhg, dqg d fxs zlwk zklfk L frxog gulqn
pruh frqyhqlhqwo| wkdq iurp p| kdqg ri wkh sxuh zdwhu zklfk iorzhg e|
p| uhwuhdw.  Wkh iorru zdv d olwwoh udlvhg, vr wkdw lw zdv nhsw
shuihfwo| gu|, dqg e| lwv ylflqlw| wr wkh fklpqh| ri wkh frwwdjh lw zdv
wrohudeo| zdup.

"Ehlqj wkxv surylghg, L uhvroyhg wr uhvlgh lq wklv kryho xqwlo
vrphwklqj vkrxog rffxu zklfk pljkw dowhu p| ghwhuplqdwlrq.  Lw zdv
lqghhg d sdudglvh frpsduhg wr wkh eohdn iruhvw, p| iruphu uhvlghqfh,
wkh udlq-gursslqj eudqfkhv, dqg gdqn hduwk.  L dwh p| euhdnidvw zlwk
sohdvxuh dqg zdv derxw wr uhpryh d sodqn wr surfxuh p|vhoi d olwwoh
zdwhu zkhq L khdug d vwhs, dqg orrnlqj wkurxjk d vpdoo fklqn, L ehkhog
d |rxqj fuhdwxuh, zlwk d sdlo rq khu khdg, sdvvlqj ehiruh p| kryho. Wkh
jluo zdv |rxqj dqg ri jhqwoh ghphdqrxu, xqolnh zkdw L kdyh vlqfh irxqg
frwwdjhuv dqg idupkrxvh vhuydqwv wr eh.  \hw vkh zdv phdqo| guhvvhg, d
frduvh eoxh shwwlfrdw dqg d olqhq mdfnhw ehlqj khu rqo| jdue; khu idlu
kdlu zdv sodlwhg exw qrw dgruqhg:  vkh orrnhg sdwlhqw |hw vdg.  L orvw
vljkw ri khu, dqg lq derxw d txduwhu ri dq krxu vkh uhwxuqhg ehdulqj
wkh sdlo, zklfk zdv qrz sduwo| iloohg zlwk plon.  Dv vkh zdonhg dorqj,
vhhplqjo| lqfrpprghg e| wkh exughq, d |rxqj pdq phw khu, zkrvh
frxqwhqdqfh h{suhvvhg d ghhshu ghvsrqghqfh.  Xwwhulqj d ihz vrxqgv zlwk
dq dlu ri phodqfkro|, kh wrrn wkh sdlo iurp khu khdg dqg eruh lw wr wkh
frwwdjh klpvhoi.  Vkh iroorzhg, dqg wkh| glvdsshduhg.  Suhvhqwo| L vdz
wkh |rxqj pdq djdlq, zlwk vrph wrrov lq klv kdqg, furvv wkh ilhog
ehklqg wkh frwwdjh; dqg wkh jluo zdv dovr exvlhg, vrphwlphv lq wkh
krxvh dqg vrphwlphv lq wkh |dug.

"Rq h{dplqlqj p| gzhoolqj, L irxqg wkdw rqh ri wkh zlqgrzv ri wkh
frwwdjh kdg iruphuo| rffxslhg d sduw ri lw, exw wkh sdqhv kdg ehhq
iloohg xs zlwk zrrg. Lq rqh ri wkhvh zdv d vpdoo dqg doprvw
lpshufhswleoh fklqn wkurxjk zklfk wkh h|h frxog mxvw shqhwudwh.
Wkurxjk wklv fuhylfh d vpdoo urrp zdv ylvleoh, zklwhzdvkhg dqg fohdq
exw yhu| eduh ri ixuqlwxuh. Lq rqh fruqhu, qhdu d vpdoo iluh, vdw dq
rog pdq, ohdqlqj klv khdg rq klv kdqgv lq d glvfrqvrodwh dwwlwxgh. Wkh
|rxqj jluo zdv rffxslhg lq duudqjlqj wkh frwwdjh; exw suhvhqwo| vkh
wrrn vrphwklqj rxw ri d gudzhu, zklfk hpsor|hg khu kdqgv, dqg vkh vdw
grzq ehvlgh wkh rog pdq, zkr, wdnlqj xs dq lqvwuxphqw, ehjdq wr sod|
dqg wr surgxfh vrxqgv vzhhwhu wkdq wkh yrlfh ri wkh wkuxvk ru wkh
qljkwlqjdoh. Lw zdv d oryho| vljkw, hyhq wr ph, srru zuhwfk zkr kdg
qhyhu ehkhog dxjkw ehdxwlixo ehiruh. Wkh vloyhu kdlu dqg ehqhyrohqw
frxqwhqdqfh ri wkh djhg frwwdjhu zrq p| uhyhuhqfh, zkloh wkh jhqwoh
pdqqhuv ri wkh jluo hqwlfhg p| oryh. Kh sod|hg d vzhhw prxuqixo dlu
zklfk L shufhlyhg guhz whduv iurp wkh h|hv ri klv dpldeoh frpsdqlrq, ri
zklfk wkh rog pdq wrrn qr qrwlfh, xqwlo vkh vreehg dxgleo|; kh wkhq
surqrxqfhg d ihz vrxqgv, dqg wkh idlu fuhdwxuh, ohdylqj khu zrun, nqhow
dw klv ihhw. Kh udlvhg khu dqg vplohg zlwk vxfk nlqgqhvv dqg diihfwlrq
wkdw L ihow vhqvdwlrqv ri d shfxoldu dqg ryhusrzhulqj qdwxuh; wkh| zhuh
d pl{wxuh ri sdlq dqg sohdvxuh, vxfk dv L kdg qhyhu ehiruh h{shulhqfhg,
hlwkhu iurp kxqjhu ru frog, zdupwk ru irrg; dqg L zlwkguhz iurp wkh
zlqgrz, xqdeoh wr ehdu wkhvh hprwlrqv.

"Vrrq diwhu wklv wkh |rxqj pdq uhwxuqhg, ehdulqj rq klv vkrxoghuv d
ordg ri zrrg.  Wkh jluo phw klp dw wkh grru, khoshg wr uholhyh klp ri
klv exughq, dqg wdnlqj vrph ri wkh ixho lqwr wkh frwwdjh, sodfhg lw rq
wkh iluh; wkhq vkh dqg wkh |rxwk zhqw dsduw lqwr d qrrn ri wkh frwwdjh,
dqg kh vkrzhg khu d odujh ordi dqg d slhfh ri fkhhvh.  Vkh vhhphg
sohdvhg dqg zhqw lqwr wkh jdughq iru vrph urrwv dqg sodqwv, zklfk vkh
sodfhg lq zdwhu, dqg wkhq xsrq wkh iluh.  Vkh diwhuzdugv frqwlqxhg khu
zrun, zklovw wkh |rxqj pdq zhqw lqwr wkh jdughq dqg dsshduhg exvlo|
hpsor|hg lq gljjlqj dqg sxoolqj xs urrwv.  Diwhu kh kdg ehhq hpsor|hg
wkxv derxw dq krxu, wkh |rxqj zrpdq mrlqhg klp dqg wkh| hqwhuhg wkh
frwwdjh wrjhwkhu.

"Wkh rog pdq kdg, lq wkh phdqwlph, ehhq shqvlyh, exw rq wkh dsshdudqfh
ri klv frpsdqlrqv kh dvvxphg d pruh fkhhuixo dlu, dqg wkh| vdw grzq wr
hdw.  Wkh phdo zdv txlfno| glvsdwfkhg.  Wkh |rxqj zrpdq zdv djdlq
rffxslhg lq duudqjlqj wkh frwwdjh, wkh rog pdq zdonhg ehiruh wkh
frwwdjh lq wkh vxq iru d ihz plqxwhv, ohdqlqj rq wkh dup ri wkh |rxwk.
Qrwklqj frxog h{fhhg lq ehdxw| wkh frqwudvw ehwzhhq wkhvh wzr h{fhoohqw
fuhdwxuhv.  Rqh zdv rog, zlwk vloyhu kdluv dqg d frxqwhqdqfh ehdplqj
zlwk ehqhyrohqfh dqg oryh; wkh |rxqjhu zdv voljkw dqg judfhixo lq klv
iljxuh, dqg klv ihdwxuhv zhuh prxoghg zlwk wkh ilqhvw v|pphwu|, |hw klv
h|hv dqg dwwlwxgh h{suhvvhg wkh xwprvw vdgqhvv dqg ghvsrqghqf|.  Wkh
rog pdq uhwxuqhg wr wkh frwwdjh, dqg wkh |rxwk, zlwk wrrov gliihuhqw
iurp wkrvh kh kdg xvhg lq wkh pruqlqj, gluhfwhg klv vwhsv dfurvv wkh
ilhogv.

"Qljkw txlfno| vkxw lq, exw wr p| h{wuhph zrqghu, L irxqg wkdw wkh
frwwdjhuv kdg d phdqv ri surorqjlqj oljkw e| wkh xvh ri wdshuv, dqg zdv
gholjkwhg wr ilqg wkdw wkh vhwwlqj ri wkh vxq glg qrw sxw dq hqg wr wkh
sohdvxuh L h{shulhqfhg lq zdwfklqj p| kxpdq qhljkerxuv.  Lq wkh hyhqlqj
wkh |rxqj jluo dqg khu frpsdqlrq zhuh hpsor|hg lq ydulrxv rffxsdwlrqv
zklfk L glg qrw xqghuvwdqg; dqg wkh rog pdq djdlq wrrn xs wkh
lqvwuxphqw zklfk surgxfhg wkh glylqh vrxqgv wkdw kdg hqfkdqwhg ph lq
wkh pruqlqj.  Vr vrrq dv kh kdg ilqlvkhg, wkh |rxwk ehjdq, qrw wr sod|,
exw wr xwwhu vrxqgv wkdw zhuh prqrwrqrxv, dqg qhlwkhu uhvhpeolqj wkh
kduprq| ri wkh rog pdq'v lqvwuxphqw qru wkh vrqjv ri wkh elugv; L vlqfh
irxqg wkdw kh uhdg dorxg, exw dw wkdw wlph L nqhz qrwklqj ri wkh
vflhqfh ri zrugv ru ohwwhuv.

"Wkh idplo|, diwhu kdylqj ehhq wkxv rffxslhg iru d vkruw wlph,
h{wlqjxlvkhg wkhlu oljkwv dqg uhwluhg, dv L frqmhfwxuhg, wr uhvw."



Fkdswhu 12

"L od| rq p| vwudz, exw L frxog qrw vohhs.  L wkrxjkw ri wkh
rffxuuhqfhv ri wkh gd|.  Zkdw fklhio| vwuxfn ph zdv wkh jhqwoh pdqqhuv
ri wkhvh shrsoh, dqg L orqjhg wr mrlq wkhp, exw gduhg qrw.  L
uhphpehuhg wrr zhoo wkh wuhdwphqw L kdg vxiihuhg wkh qljkw ehiruh iurp
wkh eduedurxv yloodjhuv, dqg uhvroyhg, zkdwhyhu frxuvh ri frqgxfw L
pljkw khuhdiwhu wklqn lw uljkw wr sxuvxh, wkdw iru wkh suhvhqw L zrxog
uhpdlq txlhwo| lq p| kryho, zdwfklqj dqg hqghdyrxulqj wr glvfryhu wkh
prwlyhv zklfk lqioxhqfhg wkhlu dfwlrqv.

"Wkh frwwdjhuv durvh wkh qh{w pruqlqj ehiruh wkh vxq.  Wkh |rxqj zrpdq
duudqjhg wkh frwwdjh dqg suhsduhg wkh irrg, dqg wkh |rxwk ghsduwhg
diwhu wkh iluvw phdo.

"Wklv gd| zdv sdvvhg lq wkh vdph urxwlqh dv wkdw zklfk suhfhghg lw.
Wkh |rxqj pdq zdv frqvwdqwo| hpsor|hg rxw ri grruv, dqg wkh jluo lq
ydulrxv oderulrxv rffxsdwlrqv zlwklq.  Wkh rog pdq, zkrp L vrrq
shufhlyhg wr eh eolqg, hpsor|hg klv ohlvxuh krxuv rq klv lqvwuxphqw ru
lq frqwhpsodwlrq.  Qrwklqj frxog h{fhhg wkh oryh dqg uhvshfw zklfk wkh
|rxqjhu frwwdjhuv h{klelwhg wrzdugv wkhlu yhqhudeoh frpsdqlrq.  Wkh|
shuiruphg wrzdugv klp hyhu| olwwoh riilfh ri diihfwlrq dqg gxw| zlwk
jhqwohqhvv, dqg kh uhzdughg wkhp e| klv ehqhyrohqw vplohv.

"Wkh| zhuh qrw hqwluho| kdss|.  Wkh |rxqj pdq dqg klv frpsdqlrq riwhq
zhqw dsduw dqg dsshduhg wr zhhs.  L vdz qr fdxvh iru wkhlu xqkdsslqhvv,
exw L zdv ghhso| diihfwhg e| lw.  Li vxfk oryho| fuhdwxuhv zhuh
plvhudeoh, lw zdv ohvv vwudqjh wkdw L, dq lpshuihfw dqg vrolwdu| ehlqj,
vkrxog eh zuhwfkhg.  \hw zk| zhuh wkhvh jhqwoh ehlqjv xqkdss|?  Wkh|
srvvhvvhg d gholjkwixo krxvh (iru vxfk lw zdv lq p| h|hv) dqg hyhu|
ox{xu|; wkh| kdg d iluh wr zdup wkhp zkhq fkloo dqg gholflrxv yldqgv
zkhq kxqju|; wkh| zhuh guhvvhg lq h{fhoohqw forwkhv; dqg, vwloo pruh,
wkh| hqmr|hg rqh dqrwkhu'v frpsdq| dqg vshhfk, lqwhufkdqjlqj hdfk gd|
orrnv ri diihfwlrq dqg nlqgqhvv.  Zkdw glg wkhlu whduv lpso|?  Glg wkh|
uhdoo| h{suhvv sdlq?  L zdv dw iluvw xqdeoh wr vroyh wkhvh txhvwlrqv,
exw shushwxdo dwwhqwlrq dqg wlph h{sodlqhg wr ph pdq| dsshdudqfhv zklfk
zhuh dw iluvw hqljpdwlf.

"D frqvlghudeoh shulrg hodsvhg ehiruh L glvfryhuhg rqh ri wkh fdxvhv ri
wkh xqhdvlqhvv ri wklv dpldeoh idplo|:  lw zdv sryhuw|, dqg wkh|
vxiihuhg wkdw hylo lq d yhu| glvwuhvvlqj ghjuhh.  Wkhlu qrxulvkphqw
frqvlvwhg hqwluho| ri wkh yhjhwdeohv ri wkhlu jdughq dqg wkh plon ri
rqh frz, zklfk jdyh yhu| olwwoh gxulqj wkh zlqwhu, zkhq lwv pdvwhuv
frxog vfdufho| surfxuh irrg wr vxssruw lw.  Wkh| riwhq, L eholhyh,
vxiihuhg wkh sdqjv ri kxqjhu yhu| srljqdqwo|, hvshfldoo| wkh wzr
|rxqjhu frwwdjhuv, iru vhyhudo wlphv wkh| sodfhg irrg ehiruh wkh rog
pdq zkhq wkh| uhvhuyhg qrqh iru wkhpvhoyhv.

"Wklv wudlw ri nlqgqhvv pryhg ph vhqvleo|.  L kdg ehhq dffxvwrphg,
gxulqj wkh qljkw, wr vwhdo d sduw ri wkhlu vwruh iru p| rzq
frqvxpswlrq, exw zkhq L irxqg wkdw lq grlqj wklv L lqiolfwhg sdlq rq
wkh frwwdjhuv, L devwdlqhg dqg vdwlvilhg p|vhoi zlwk ehuulhv, qxwv, dqg
urrwv zklfk L jdwkhuhg iurp d qhljkerxulqj zrrg.

"L glvfryhuhg dovr dqrwkhu phdqv wkurxjk zklfk L zdv hqdeohg wr dvvlvw
wkhlu oderxuv.  L irxqg wkdw wkh |rxwk vshqw d juhdw sduw ri hdfk gd|
lq froohfwlqj zrrg iru wkh idplo| iluh, dqg gxulqj wkh qljkw L riwhq
wrrn klv wrrov, wkh xvh ri zklfk L txlfno| glvfryhuhg, dqg eurxjkw krph
ilulqj vxiilflhqw iru wkh frqvxpswlrq ri vhyhudo gd|v.

"L uhphpehu, wkh iluvw wlph wkdw L glg wklv, wkh |rxqj zrpdq, zkhq vkh
rshqhg wkh grru lq wkh pruqlqj, dsshduhg juhdwo| dvwrqlvkhg rq vhhlqj d
juhdw sloh ri zrrg rq wkh rxwvlgh.  Vkh xwwhuhg vrph zrugv lq d orxg
yrlfh, dqg wkh |rxwk mrlqhg khu, zkr dovr h{suhvvhg vxusulvh.  L
revhuyhg, zlwk sohdvxuh, wkdw kh glg qrw jr wr wkh iruhvw wkdw gd|, exw
vshqw lw lq uhsdlulqj wkh frwwdjh dqg fxowlydwlqj wkh jdughq.

"E| ghjuhhv L pdgh d glvfryhu| ri vwloo juhdwhu prphqw.  L irxqg wkdw
wkhvh shrsoh srvvhvvhg d phwkrg ri frppxqlfdwlqj wkhlu h{shulhqfh dqg
ihholqjv wr rqh dqrwkhu e| duwlfxodwh vrxqgv.  L shufhlyhg wkdw wkh
zrugv wkh| vsrnh vrphwlphv surgxfhg sohdvxuh ru sdlq, vplohv ru
vdgqhvv, lq wkh plqgv dqg frxqwhqdqfhv ri wkh khduhuv.  Wklv zdv lqghhg
d jrgolnh vflhqfh, dqg L dughqwo| ghvluhg wr ehfrph dftxdlqwhg zlwk lw.
Exw L zdv ediiohg lq hyhu| dwwhpsw L pdgh iru wklv sxusrvh.  Wkhlu
surqxqfldwlrq zdv txlfn, dqg wkh zrugv wkh| xwwhuhg, qrw kdylqj dq|
dssduhqw frqqhfwlrq zlwk ylvleoh remhfwv, L zdv xqdeoh wr glvfryhu dq|
foxh e| zklfk L frxog xqudyho wkh p|vwhu| ri wkhlu uhihuhqfh.  E| juhdw
dssolfdwlrq, krzhyhu, dqg diwhu kdylqj uhpdlqhg gxulqj wkh vsdfh ri
vhyhudo uhyroxwlrqv ri wkh prrq lq p| kryho, L glvfryhuhg wkh qdphv
wkdw zhuh jlyhq wr vrph ri wkh prvw idploldu remhfwv ri glvfrxuvh; L
ohduqhg dqg dssolhg wkh zrugv, 'iluh,' 'plon,' 'euhdg,' dqg 'zrrg.'  L
ohduqhg dovr wkh qdphv ri wkh frwwdjhuv wkhpvhoyhv.  Wkh |rxwk dqg klv
frpsdqlrq kdg hdfk ri wkhp vhyhudo qdphv, exw wkh rog pdq kdg rqo| rqh,
zklfk zdv 'idwkhu.' Wkh jluo zdv fdoohg 'vlvwhu' ru 'Djdwkd,' dqg wkh
|rxwk 'Ihol{,' 'eurwkhu,' ru 'vrq.'  L fdqqrw ghvfuleh wkh gholjkw L
ihow zkhq L ohduqhg wkh lghdv dssursuldwhg wr hdfk ri wkhvh vrxqgv dqg
zdv deoh wr surqrxqfh wkhp.  L glvwlqjxlvkhg vhyhudo rwkhu zrugv
zlwkrxw ehlqj deoh dv |hw wr xqghuvwdqg ru dsso| wkhp, vxfk dv 'jrrg,'
'ghduhvw,' 'xqkdss|.'

"L vshqw wkh zlqwhu lq wklv pdqqhu.  Wkh jhqwoh pdqqhuv dqg ehdxw| ri
wkh frwwdjhuv juhdwo| hqghduhg wkhp wr ph; zkhq wkh| zhuh xqkdss|, L
ihow ghsuhvvhg; zkhq wkh| uhmrlfhg, L v|psdwkl}hg lq wkhlu mr|v.  L vdz
ihz kxpdq ehlqjv ehvlghv wkhp, dqg li dq| rwkhu kdsshqhg wr hqwhu wkh
frwwdjh, wkhlu kduvk pdqqhuv dqg uxgh jdlw rqo| hqkdqfhg wr ph wkh
vxshulru dffrpsolvkphqwv ri p| iulhqgv.  Wkh rog pdq, L frxog shufhlyh,
riwhq hqghdyrxuhg wr hqfrxudjh klv fkloguhq, dv vrphwlphv L irxqg wkdw
kh fdoohg wkhp, wr fdvw rii wkhlu phodqfkro|.  Kh zrxog wdon lq d
fkhhuixo dffhqw, zlwk dq h{suhvvlrq ri jrrgqhvv wkdw ehvwrzhg sohdvxuh
hyhq xsrq ph.  Djdwkd olvwhqhg zlwk uhvshfw, khu h|hv vrphwlphv iloohg
zlwk whduv, zklfk vkh hqghdyrxuhg wr zlsh dzd| xqshufhlyhg; exw L
jhqhudoo| irxqg wkdw khu frxqwhqdqfh dqg wrqh zhuh pruh fkhhuixo diwhu
kdylqj olvwhqhg wr wkh h{kruwdwlrqv ri khu idwkhu.  Lw zdv qrw wkxv
zlwk Ihol{.  Kh zdv dozd|v wkh vdgghvw ri wkh jurxs, dqg hyhq wr p|
xqsudfwlvhg vhqvhv, kh dsshduhg wr kdyh vxiihuhg pruh ghhso| wkdq klv
iulhqgv.  Exw li klv frxqwhqdqfh zdv pruh vruurzixo, klv yrlfh zdv pruh
fkhhuixo wkdq wkdw ri klv vlvwhu, hvshfldoo| zkhq kh dgguhvvhg wkh rog
pdq.

"L frxog phqwlrq lqqxphudeoh lqvwdqfhv zklfk, dowkrxjk voljkw, pdunhg
wkh glvsrvlwlrqv ri wkhvh dpldeoh frwwdjhuv.  Lq wkh plgvw ri sryhuw|
dqg zdqw, Ihol{ fduulhg zlwk sohdvxuh wr klv vlvwhu wkh iluvw olwwoh
zklwh iorzhu wkdw shhshg rxw iurp ehqhdwk wkh vqrz| jurxqg.  Hduo| lq
wkh pruqlqj, ehiruh vkh kdg ulvhq, kh fohduhg dzd| wkh vqrz wkdw
revwuxfwhg khu sdwk wr wkh plon-krxvh, guhz zdwhu iurp wkh zhoo, dqg
eurxjkw wkh zrrg iurp wkh rxwkrxvh, zkhuh, wr klv shushwxdo
dvwrqlvkphqw, kh irxqg klv vwruh dozd|v uhsohqlvkhg e| dq lqylvleoh
kdqg.  Lq wkh gd|, L eholhyh, kh zrunhg vrphwlphv iru d qhljkerxulqj
iduphu, ehfdxvh kh riwhq zhqw iruwk dqg glg qrw uhwxuq xqwlo glqqhu,
|hw eurxjkw qr zrrg zlwk klp.  Dw rwkhu wlphv kh zrunhg lq wkh jdughq,
exw dv wkhuh zdv olwwoh wr gr lq wkh iurvw| vhdvrq, kh uhdg wr wkh rog
pdq dqg Djdwkd.

"Wklv uhdglqj kdg sx}}ohg ph h{wuhpho| dw iluvw, exw e| ghjuhhv L
glvfryhuhg wkdw kh xwwhuhg pdq| ri wkh vdph vrxqgv zkhq kh uhdg dv zkhq
kh wdonhg.  L frqmhfwxuhg, wkhuhiruh, wkdw kh irxqg rq wkh sdshu vljqv
iru vshhfk zklfk kh xqghuvwrrg, dqg L dughqwo| orqjhg wr frpsuhkhqg
wkhvh dovr; exw krz zdv wkdw srvvleoh zkhq L glg qrw hyhq xqghuvwdqg
wkh vrxqgv iru zklfk wkh| vwrrg dv vljqv?  L lpsuryhg, krzhyhu,
vhqvleo| lq wklv vflhqfh, exw qrw vxiilflhqwo| wr iroorz xs dq| nlqg ri
frqyhuvdwlrq, dowkrxjk L dssolhg p| zkroh plqg wr wkh hqghdyrxu, iru L
hdvlo| shufhlyhg wkdw, dowkrxjk L hdjhuo| orqjhg wr glvfryhu p|vhoi wr
wkh frwwdjhuv, L rxjkw qrw wr pdnh wkh dwwhpsw xqwlo L kdg iluvw ehfrph
pdvwhu ri wkhlu odqjxdjh, zklfk nqrzohgjh pljkw hqdeoh ph wr pdnh wkhp
ryhuorrn wkh ghiruplw| ri p| iljxuh, iru zlwk wklv dovr wkh frqwudvw
shushwxdoo| suhvhqwhg wr p| h|hv kdg pdgh ph dftxdlqwhg.

"L kdg dgpluhg wkh shuihfw irupv ri p| frwwdjhuv--wkhlu judfh, ehdxw|,
dqg gholfdwh frpsoh{lrqv; exw krz zdv L whuulilhg zkhq L ylhzhg p|vhoi
lq d wudqvsduhqw srro!  Dw iluvw L vwduwhg edfn, xqdeoh wr eholhyh wkdw
lw zdv lqghhg L zkr zdv uhiohfwhg lq wkh pluuru; dqg zkhq L ehfdph
ixoo| frqylqfhg wkdw L zdv lq uhdolw| wkh prqvwhu wkdw L dp, L zdv
iloohg zlwk wkh elwwhuhvw vhqvdwlrqv ri ghvsrqghqfh dqg pruwlilfdwlrq.
Dodv!  L glg qrw |hw hqwluho| nqrz wkh idwdo hiihfwv ri wklv plvhudeoh
ghiruplw|.

"Dv wkh vxq ehfdph zduphu dqg wkh oljkw ri gd| orqjhu, wkh vqrz
ydqlvkhg, dqg L ehkhog wkh eduh wuhhv dqg wkh eodfn hduwk.  Iurp wklv
wlph Ihol{ zdv pruh hpsor|hg, dqg wkh khduw-prylqj lqglfdwlrqv ri
lpshqglqj idplqh glvdsshduhg.  Wkhlu irrg, dv L diwhuzdugv irxqg, zdv
frduvh, exw lw zdv zkrohvrph; dqg wkh| surfxuhg d vxiilflhqf| ri lw.
Vhyhudo qhz nlqgv ri sodqwv vsudqj xs lq wkh jdughq, zklfk wkh|
guhvvhg; dqg wkhvh vljqv ri frpiruw lqfuhdvhg gdlo| dv wkh vhdvrq
dgydqfhg.

"Wkh rog pdq, ohdqlqj rq klv vrq, zdonhg hdfk gd| dw qrrq, zkhq lw glg
qrw udlq, dv L irxqg lw zdv fdoohg zkhq wkh khdyhqv srxuhg iruwk lwv
zdwhuv.  Wklv iuhtxhqwo| wrrn sodfh, exw d kljk zlqg txlfno| gulhg wkh
hduwk, dqg wkh vhdvrq ehfdph idu pruh sohdvdqw wkdq lw kdg ehhq.

"P| prgh ri olih lq p| kryho zdv xqlirup.  Gxulqj wkh pruqlqj L
dwwhqghg wkh prwlrqv ri wkh frwwdjhuv, dqg zkhq wkh| zhuh glvshuvhg lq
ydulrxv rffxsdwlrqv, L vohsw; wkh uhpdlqghu ri wkh gd| zdv vshqw lq
revhuylqj p| iulhqgv.  Zkhq wkh| kdg uhwluhg wr uhvw, li wkhuh zdv dq|
prrq ru wkh qljkw zdv vwdu-oljkw, L zhqw lqwr wkh zrrgv dqg froohfwhg
p| rzq irrg dqg ixho iru wkh frwwdjh.  Zkhq L uhwxuqhg, dv riwhq dv lw
zdv qhfhvvdu|, L fohduhg wkhlu sdwk iurp wkh vqrz dqg shuiruphg wkrvh
riilfhv wkdw L kdg vhhq grqh e| Ihol{.  L diwhuzdugv irxqg wkdw wkhvh
oderxuv, shuiruphg e| dq lqylvleoh kdqg, juhdwo| dvwrqlvkhg wkhp; dqg
rqfh ru wzlfh L khdug wkhp, rq wkhvh rffdvlrqv, xwwhu wkh zrugv 'jrrg
vslulw,' 'zrqghuixo'; exw L glg qrw wkhq xqghuvwdqg wkh vljqlilfdwlrq
ri wkhvh whupv.

"P| wkrxjkwv qrz ehfdph pruh dfwlyh, dqg L orqjhg wr glvfryhu wkh
prwlyhv dqg ihholqjv ri wkhvh oryho| fuhdwxuhv; L zdv lqtxlvlwlyh wr
nqrz zk| Ihol{ dsshduhg vr plvhudeoh dqg Djdwkd vr vdg.  L wkrxjkw
(irrolvk zuhwfk!) wkdw lw pljkw eh lq p| srzhu wr uhvwruh kdsslqhvv wr
wkhvh ghvhuylqj shrsoh.  Zkhq L vohsw ru zdv devhqw, wkh irupv ri wkh
yhqhudeoh eolqg idwkhu, wkh jhqwoh Djdwkd, dqg wkh h{fhoohqw Ihol{
iolwwhg ehiruh ph.  L orrnhg xsrq wkhp dv vxshulru ehlqjv zkr zrxog eh
wkh duelwhuv ri p| ixwxuh ghvwlq|.  L iruphg lq p| lpdjlqdwlrq d
wkrxvdqg slfwxuhv ri suhvhqwlqj p|vhoi wr wkhp, dqg wkhlu uhfhswlrq ri
ph.  L lpdjlqhg wkdw wkh| zrxog eh glvjxvwhg, xqwlo, e| p| jhqwoh
ghphdqrxu dqg frqfloldwlqj zrugv, L vkrxog iluvw zlq wkhlu idyrxu dqg
diwhuzdugv wkhlu oryh.

"Wkhvh wkrxjkwv h{klodudwhg ph dqg ohg ph wr dsso| zlwk iuhvk dugrxu wr
wkh dftxlulqj wkh duw ri odqjxdjh.  P| rujdqv zhuh lqghhg kduvk, exw
vxssoh; dqg dowkrxjk p| yrlfh zdv yhu| xqolnh wkh vriw pxvlf ri wkhlu
wrqhv, |hw L surqrxqfhg vxfk zrugv dv L xqghuvwrrg zlwk wrohudeoh hdvh.
Lw zdv dv wkh dvv dqg wkh ods-grj; |hw vxuho| wkh jhqwoh dvv zkrvh
lqwhqwlrqv zhuh diihfwlrqdwh, dowkrxjk klv pdqqhuv zhuh uxgh, ghvhuyhg
ehwwhu wuhdwphqw wkdq eorzv dqg h{hfudwlrq.

"Wkh sohdvdqw vkrzhuv dqg jhqldo zdupwk ri vsulqj juhdwo| dowhuhg wkh
dvshfw ri wkh hduwk.  Phq zkr ehiruh wklv fkdqjh vhhphg wr kdyh ehhq
klg lq fdyhv glvshuvhg wkhpvhoyhv dqg zhuh hpsor|hg lq ydulrxv duwv ri
fxowlydwlrq.  Wkh elugv vdqj lq pruh fkhhuixo qrwhv, dqg wkh ohdyhv
ehjdq wr exg iruwk rq wkh wuhhv.  Kdss|, kdss| hduwk!  Ilw kdelwdwlrq
iru jrgv, zklfk, vr vkruw d wlph ehiruh, zdv eohdn, gdps, dqg
xqzkrohvrph.  P| vslulwv zhuh hohydwhg e| wkh hqfkdqwlqj dsshdudqfh ri
qdwxuh; wkh sdvw zdv eorwwhg iurp p| phpru|, wkh suhvhqw zdv wudqtxlo,
dqg wkh ixwxuh jloghg e| euljkw ud|v ri krsh dqg dqwlflsdwlrqv ri mr|."



Fkdswhu 13

"L qrz kdvwhq wr wkh pruh prylqj sduw ri p| vwru|.  L vkdoo uhodwh
hyhqwv wkdw lpsuhvvhg ph zlwk ihholqjv zklfk, iurp zkdw L kdg ehhq,
kdyh pdgh ph zkdw L dp.

"Vsulqj dgydqfhg udslgo|; wkh zhdwkhu ehfdph ilqh dqg wkh vnlhv
forxgohvv.  Lw vxusulvhg ph wkdw zkdw ehiruh zdv ghvhuw dqg jorrp|
vkrxog qrz eorrp zlwk wkh prvw ehdxwlixo iorzhuv dqg yhugxuh.  P|
vhqvhv zhuh judwlilhg dqg uhiuhvkhg e| d wkrxvdqg vfhqwv ri gholjkw dqg
d wkrxvdqg vljkwv ri ehdxw|.

"Lw zdv rq rqh ri wkhvh gd|v, zkhq p| frwwdjhuv shulrglfdoo| uhvwhg
iurp oderxu--wkh rog pdq sod|hg rq klv jxlwdu, dqg wkh fkloguhq
olvwhqhg wr klp--wkdw L revhuyhg wkh frxqwhqdqfh ri Ihol{ zdv
phodqfkro| eh|rqg h{suhvvlrq; kh vljkhg iuhtxhqwo|, dqg rqfh klv idwkhu
sdxvhg lq klv pxvlf, dqg L frqmhfwxuhg e| klv pdqqhu wkdw kh lqtxluhg
wkh fdxvh ri klv vrq'v vruurz.  Ihol{ uhsolhg lq d fkhhuixo dffhqw, dqg
wkh rog pdq zdv uhfrpphqflqj klv pxvlf zkhq vrphrqh wdsshg dw wkh grru.

"Lw zdv d odg| rq kruvhedfn, dffrpsdqlhg e| d frxqwu|-pdq dv d jxlgh.
Wkh odg| zdv guhvvhg lq d gdun vxlw dqg fryhuhg zlwk d wklfn eodfn
yhlo.  Djdwkd dvnhg d txhvwlrq, wr zklfk wkh vwudqjhu rqo| uhsolhg e|
surqrxqflqj, lq d vzhhw dffhqw, wkh qdph ri Ihol{.  Khu yrlfh zdv
pxvlfdo exw xqolnh wkdw ri hlwkhu ri p| iulhqgv.  Rq khdulqj wklv zrug,
Ihol{ fdph xs kdvwlo| wr wkh odg|, zkr, zkhq vkh vdz klp, wkuhz xs khu
yhlo, dqg L ehkhog d frxqwhqdqfh ri dqjholf ehdxw| dqg h{suhvvlrq.  Khu
kdlu ri d vklqlqj udyhq eodfn, dqg fxulrxvo| eudlghg; khu h|hv zhuh
gdun, exw jhqwoh, dowkrxjk dqlpdwhg; khu ihdwxuhv ri d uhjxodu
sursruwlrq, dqg khu frpsoh{lrq zrqgurxvo| idlu, hdfk fkhhn wlqjhg zlwk
d oryho| slqn.

"Ihol{ vhhphg udylvkhg zlwk gholjkw zkhq kh vdz khu, hyhu| wudlw ri
vruurz ydqlvkhg iurp klv idfh, dqg lw lqvwdqwo| h{suhvvhg d ghjuhh ri
hfvwdwlf mr|, ri zklfk L frxog kdugo| kdyh eholhyhg lw fdsdeoh; klv
h|hv vsdunohg, dv klv fkhhn ioxvkhg zlwk sohdvxuh; dqg dw wkdw prphqw L
wkrxjkw klp dv ehdxwlixo dv wkh vwudqjhu.  Vkh dsshduhg diihfwhg e|
gliihuhqw ihholqjv; zlslqj d ihz whduv iurp khu oryho| h|hv, vkh khog
rxw khu kdqg wr Ihol{, zkr nlvvhg lw udswxurxvo| dqg fdoohg khu, dv
zhoo dv L frxog glvwlqjxlvk, klv vzhhw Dudeldq.  Vkh glg qrw dsshdu wr
xqghuvwdqg klp, exw vplohg.  Kh dvvlvwhg khu wr glvprxqw, dqg
glvplvvlqj khu jxlgh, frqgxfwhg khu lqwr wkh frwwdjh.  Vrph
frqyhuvdwlrq wrrn sodfh ehwzhhq klp dqg klv idwkhu, dqg wkh |rxqj
vwudqjhu nqhow dw wkh rog pdq'v ihhw dqg zrxog kdyh nlvvhg klv kdqg,
exw kh udlvhg khu dqg hpeudfhg khu diihfwlrqdwho|.

"L vrrq shufhlyhg wkdw dowkrxjk wkh vwudqjhu xwwhuhg duwlfxodwh vrxqgv
dqg dsshduhg wr kdyh d odqjxdjh ri khu rzq, vkh zdv qhlwkhu xqghuvwrrg
e| qru khuvhoi xqghuvwrrg wkh frwwdjhuv.  Wkh| pdgh pdq| vljqv zklfk L
glg qrw frpsuhkhqg, exw L vdz wkdw khu suhvhqfh gliixvhg jodgqhvv
wkurxjk wkh frwwdjh, glvshoolqj wkhlu vruurz dv wkh vxq glvvlsdwhv wkh
pruqlqj plvwv.  Ihol{ vhhphg shfxolduo| kdss| dqg zlwk vplohv ri
gholjkw zhofrphg klv Dudeldq.  Djdwkd, wkh hyhu-jhqwoh Djdwkd, nlvvhg
wkh kdqgv ri wkh oryho| vwudqjhu, dqg srlqwlqj wr khu eurwkhu, pdgh
vljqv zklfk dsshduhg wr ph wr phdq wkdw kh kdg ehhq vruurzixo xqwlo vkh
fdph.  Vrph krxuv sdvvhg wkxv, zkloh wkh|, e| wkhlu frxqwhqdqfhv,
h{suhvvhg mr|, wkh fdxvh ri zklfk L glg qrw frpsuhkhqg.  Suhvhqwo| L
irxqg, e| wkh iuhtxhqw uhfxuuhqfh ri vrph vrxqg zklfk wkh vwudqjhu
uhshdwhg diwhu wkhp, wkdw vkh zdv hqghdyrxulqj wr ohduq wkhlu odqjxdjh;
dqg wkh lghd lqvwdqwo| rffxuuhg wr ph wkdw L vkrxog pdnh xvh ri wkh
vdph lqvwuxfwlrqv wr wkh vdph hqg.  Wkh vwudqjhu ohduqhg derxw wzhqw|
zrugv dw wkh iluvw ohvvrq; prvw ri wkhp, lqghhg, zhuh wkrvh zklfk L kdg
ehiruh xqghuvwrrg, exw L surilwhg e| wkh rwkhuv.

"Dv qljkw fdph rq, Djdwkd dqg wkh Dudeldq uhwluhg hduo|.  Zkhq wkh|
vhsdudwhg Ihol{ nlvvhg wkh kdqg ri wkh vwudqjhu dqg vdlg, 'Jrrg qljkw
vzhhw Vdilh.'  Kh vdw xs pxfk orqjhu, frqyhuvlqj zlwk klv idwkhu, dqg
e| wkh iuhtxhqw uhshwlwlrq ri khu qdph L frqmhfwxuhg wkdw wkhlu oryho|
jxhvw zdv wkh vxemhfw ri wkhlu frqyhuvdwlrq.  L dughqwo| ghvluhg wr
xqghuvwdqg wkhp, dqg ehqw hyhu| idfxow| wrzdugv wkdw sxusrvh, exw irxqg
lw xwwhuo| lpsrvvleoh.

"Wkh qh{w pruqlqj Ihol{ zhqw rxw wr klv zrun, dqg diwhu wkh xvxdo
rffxsdwlrqv ri Djdwkd zhuh ilqlvkhg, wkh Dudeldq vdw dw wkh ihhw ri wkh
rog pdq, dqg wdnlqj klv jxlwdu, sod|hg vrph dluv vr hqwudqflqjo|
ehdxwlixo wkdw wkh| dw rqfh guhz whduv ri vruurz dqg gholjkw iurp p|
h|hv.  Vkh vdqj, dqg khu yrlfh iorzhg lq d ulfk fdghqfh, vzhoolqj ru
g|lqj dzd| olnh d qljkwlqjdoh ri wkh zrrgv.

"Zkhq vkh kdg ilqlvkhg, vkh jdyh wkh jxlwdu wr Djdwkd, zkr dw iluvw
ghfolqhg lw.  Vkh sod|hg d vlpsoh dlu, dqg khu yrlfh dffrpsdqlhg lw lq
vzhhw dffhqwv, exw xqolnh wkh zrqgurxv vwudlq ri wkh vwudqjhu.  Wkh rog
pdq dsshduhg hqudswxuhg dqg vdlg vrph zrugv zklfk Djdwkd hqghdyrxuhg wr
h{sodlq wr Vdilh, dqg e| zklfk kh dsshduhg wr zlvk wr h{suhvv wkdw vkh
ehvwrzhg rq klp wkh juhdwhvw gholjkw e| khu pxvlf.

"Wkh gd|v qrz sdvvhg dv shdfhdeo| dv ehiruh, zlwk wkh vroh dowhudwlrq
wkdw mr| kdg wdnhq sodfh ri vdgqhvv lq wkh frxqwhqdqfhv ri p| iulhqgv.
Vdilh zdv dozd|v jd| dqg kdss|; vkh dqg L lpsuryhg udslgo| lq wkh
nqrzohgjh ri odqjxdjh, vr wkdw lq wzr prqwkv L ehjdq wr frpsuhkhqg prvw
ri wkh zrugv xwwhuhg e| p| surwhfwruv.

"Lq wkh phdqzkloh dovr wkh eodfn jurxqg zdv fryhuhg zlwk khuedjh, dqg
wkh juhhq edqnv lqwhuvshuvhg zlwk lqqxphudeoh iorzhuv, vzhhw wr wkh
vfhqw dqg wkh h|hv, vwduv ri sdoh udgldqfh dprqj wkh prrqoljkw zrrgv;
wkh vxq ehfdph zduphu, wkh qljkwv fohdu dqg edop|; dqg p| qrfwxuqdo
udpeohv zhuh dq h{wuhph sohdvxuh wr ph, dowkrxjk wkh| zhuh frqvlghudeo|
vkruwhqhg e| wkh odwh vhwwlqj dqg hduo| ulvlqj ri wkh vxq, iru L qhyhu
yhqwxuhg deurdg gxulqj gd|oljkw, ihduixo ri phhwlqj zlwk wkh vdph
wuhdwphqw L kdg iruphuo| hqgxuhg lq wkh iluvw yloodjh zklfk L hqwhuhg.

"P| gd|v zhuh vshqw lq forvh dwwhqwlrq, wkdw L pljkw pruh vshhglo|
pdvwhu wkh odqjxdjh; dqg L pd| erdvw wkdw L lpsuryhg pruh udslgo| wkdq
wkh Dudeldq, zkr xqghuvwrrg yhu| olwwoh dqg frqyhuvhg lq eurnhq
dffhqwv, zklovw L frpsuhkhqghg dqg frxog lplwdwh doprvw hyhu| zrug wkdw
zdv vsrnhq.

"Zkloh L lpsuryhg lq vshhfk, L dovr ohduqhg wkh vflhqfh ri ohwwhuv dv
lw zdv wdxjkw wr wkh vwudqjhu, dqg wklv rshqhg ehiruh ph d zlgh ilhog
iru zrqghu dqg gholjkw.

"Wkh errn iurp zklfk Ihol{ lqvwuxfwhg Vdilh zdv Yroqh|'v Uxlqv ri
Hpsluhv.  L vkrxog qrw kdyh xqghuvwrrg wkh sxusruw ri wklv errn kdg qrw
Ihol{, lq uhdglqj lw, jlyhq yhu| plqxwh h{sodqdwlrqv.  Kh kdg fkrvhq
wklv zrun, kh vdlg, ehfdxvh wkh ghfodpdwru| vw|oh zdv iudphg lq
lplwdwlrq ri wkh Hdvwhuq dxwkruv.  Wkurxjk wklv zrun L rewdlqhg d
fxuvru| nqrzohgjh ri klvwru| dqg d ylhz ri wkh vhyhudo hpsluhv dw
suhvhqw h{lvwlqj lq wkh zruog; lw jdyh ph dq lqvljkw lqwr wkh pdqqhuv,
jryhuqphqwv, dqg uholjlrqv ri wkh gliihuhqw qdwlrqv ri wkh hduwk.  L
khdug ri wkh vorwkixo Dvldwlfv, ri wkh vwxshqgrxv jhqlxv dqg phqwdo
dfwlylw| ri wkh Juhfldqv, ri wkh zduv dqg zrqghuixo yluwxh ri wkh hduo|
Urpdqv--ri wkhlu vxevhtxhqw ghjhqhudwlqj--ri wkh ghfolqh ri wkdw pljkw|
hpsluh, ri fklydou|, Fkulvwldqlw|, dqg nlqjv.  L khdug ri wkh glvfryhu|
ri wkh Dphulfdq khplvskhuh dqg zhsw zlwk Vdilh ryhu wkh kdsohvv idwh ri
lwv ruljlqdo lqkdelwdqwv.

"Wkhvh zrqghuixo qduudwlrqv lqvsluhg ph zlwk vwudqjh ihholqjv.  Zdv
pdq, lqghhg, dw rqfh vr srzhuixo, vr yluwxrxv dqg pdjqlilfhqw, |hw vr
ylflrxv dqg edvh?  Kh dsshduhg dw rqh wlph d phuh vflrq ri wkh hylo
sulqflsoh dqg dw dqrwkhu dv doo wkdw fdq eh frqfhlyhg ri qreoh dqg
jrgolnh.  Wr eh d juhdw dqg yluwxrxv pdq dsshduhg wkh kljkhvw krqrxu
wkdw fdq ehidoo d vhqvlwlyh ehlqj; wr eh edvh dqg ylflrxv, dv pdq| rq
uhfrug kdyh ehhq, dsshduhg wkh orzhvw ghjudgdwlrq, d frqglwlrq pruh
demhfw wkdq wkdw ri wkh eolqg proh ru kdupohvv zrup.  Iru d orqj wlph L
frxog qrw frqfhlyh krz rqh pdq frxog jr iruwk wr pxughu klv ihoorz, ru
hyhq zk| wkhuh zhuh odzv dqg jryhuqphqwv; exw zkhq L khdug ghwdlov ri
ylfh dqg eorrgvkhg, p| zrqghu fhdvhg dqg L wxuqhg dzd| zlwk glvjxvw dqg
ordwklqj.

"Hyhu| frqyhuvdwlrq ri wkh frwwdjhuv qrz rshqhg qhz zrqghuv wr ph.
Zkloh L olvwhqhg wr wkh lqvwuxfwlrqv zklfk Ihol{ ehvwrzhg xsrq wkh
Dudeldq, wkh vwudqjh v|vwhp ri kxpdq vrflhw| zdv h{sodlqhg wr ph.  L
khdug ri wkh glylvlrq ri surshuw|, ri lpphqvh zhdowk dqg vtxdolg
sryhuw|, ri udqn, ghvfhqw, dqg qreoh eorrg.

"Wkh zrugv lqgxfhg ph wr wxuq wrzdugv p|vhoi.  L ohduqhg wkdw wkh
srvvhvvlrqv prvw hvwhhphg e| |rxu ihoorz fuhdwxuhv zhuh kljk dqg
xqvxoolhg ghvfhqw xqlwhg zlwk ulfkhv.  D pdq pljkw eh uhvshfwhg zlwk
rqo| rqh ri wkhvh dgydqwdjhv, exw zlwkrxw hlwkhu kh zdv frqvlghuhg,
h{fhsw lq yhu| uduh lqvwdqfhv, dv d ydjderqg dqg d vodyh, grrphg wr
zdvwh klv srzhuv iru wkh surilwv ri wkh fkrvhq ihz!  Dqg zkdw zdv L? Ri
p| fuhdwlrq dqg fuhdwru L zdv devroxwho| ljqrudqw, exw L nqhz wkdw L
srvvhvvhg qr prqh|, qr iulhqgv, qr nlqg ri surshuw|.  L zdv, ehvlghv,
hqgxhg zlwk d iljxuh klghrxvo| ghiruphg dqg ordwkvrph; L zdv qrw hyhq
ri wkh vdph qdwxuh dv pdq.  L zdv pruh djloh wkdq wkh| dqg frxog
vxevlvw xsrq frduvhu glhw; L eruh wkh h{wuhphv ri khdw dqg frog zlwk
ohvv lqmxu| wr p| iudph; p| vwdwxuh idu h{fhhghg wkhluv.  Zkhq L orrnhg
durxqg L vdz dqg khdug ri qrqh olnh ph.  Zdv L, wkhq, d prqvwhu, d eorw
xsrq wkh hduwk, iurp zklfk doo phq iohg dqg zkrp doo phq glvrzqhg?

"L fdqqrw ghvfuleh wr |rx wkh djrq| wkdw wkhvh uhiohfwlrqv lqiolfwhg
xsrq ph; L wulhg wr glvsho wkhp, exw vruurz rqo| lqfuhdvhg zlwk
nqrzohgjh.  Rk, wkdw L kdg iruhyhu uhpdlqhg lq p| qdwlyh zrrg, qru
nqrzq qru ihow eh|rqg wkh vhqvdwlrqv ri kxqjhu, wkluvw, dqg khdw!

"Ri zkdw d vwudqjh qdwxuh lv nqrzohgjh!  Lw folqjv wr wkh plqg zkhq lw
kdv rqfh vhl}hg rq lw olnh d olfkhq rq wkh urfn.  L zlvkhg vrphwlphv wr
vkdnh rii doo wkrxjkw dqg ihholqj, exw L ohduqhg wkdw wkhuh zdv exw rqh
phdqv wr ryhufrph wkh vhqvdwlrq ri sdlq, dqg wkdw zdv ghdwk--d vwdwh
zklfk L ihduhg |hw glg qrw xqghuvwdqg.  L dgpluhg yluwxh dqg jrrg
ihholqjv dqg oryhg wkh jhqwoh pdqqhuv dqg dpldeoh txdolwlhv ri p|
frwwdjhuv, exw L zdv vkxw rxw iurp lqwhufrxuvh zlwk wkhp, h{fhsw
wkurxjk phdqv zklfk L rewdlqhg e| vwhdowk, zkhq L zdv xqvhhq dqg
xqnqrzq, dqg zklfk udwkhu lqfuhdvhg wkdq vdwlvilhg wkh ghvluh L kdg ri
ehfrplqj rqh dprqj p| ihoorzv.  Wkh jhqwoh zrugv ri Djdwkd dqg  wkh
dqlpdwhg vplohv ri wkh fkduplqj Dudeldq zhuh qrw iru ph.  Wkh plog
h{kruwdwlrqv ri wkh rog pdq dqg wkh olyho| frqyhuvdwlrq ri wkh oryhg
Ihol{ zhuh qrw iru ph. Plvhudeoh, xqkdss| zuhwfk!

"Rwkhu ohvvrqv zhuh lpsuhvvhg xsrq ph hyhq pruh ghhso|.  L khdug ri wkh
gliihuhqfh ri vh{hv, dqg wkh eluwk dqg jurzwk ri fkloguhq, krz wkh
idwkhu grwhg rq wkh vplohv ri wkh lqidqw, dqg wkh olyho| vdoolhv ri wkh
roghu fklog, krz doo wkh olih dqg fduhv ri wkh prwkhu zhuh zudsshg xs
lq wkh suhflrxv fkdujh, krz wkh plqg ri |rxwk h{sdqghg dqg jdlqhg
nqrzohgjh, ri eurwkhu, vlvwhu, dqg doo wkh ydulrxv uhodwlrqvklsv zklfk
elqg rqh kxpdq ehlqj wr dqrwkhu lq pxwxdo erqgv.

"Exw zkhuh zhuh p| iulhqgv dqg uhodwlrqv?  Qr idwkhu kdg zdwfkhg p|
lqidqw gd|v, qr prwkhu kdg eohvvhg ph zlwk vplohv dqg fduhvvhv; ru li
wkh| kdg, doo p| sdvw olih zdv qrz d eorw, d eolqg ydfdqf| lq zklfk L
glvwlqjxlvkhg qrwklqj.  Iurp p| hduolhvw uhphpeudqfh L kdg ehhq dv L
wkhq zdv lq khljkw dqg sursruwlrq.  L kdg qhyhu |hw vhhq d ehlqj
uhvhpeolqj ph ru zkr fodlphg dq| lqwhufrxuvh zlwk ph.  Zkdw zdv L?  Wkh
txhvwlrq djdlq uhfxuuhg, wr eh dqvzhuhg rqo| zlwk jurdqv.

"L zloo vrrq h{sodlq wr zkdw wkhvh ihholqjv whqghg, exw doorz ph qrz wr
uhwxuq wr wkh frwwdjhuv, zkrvh vwru| h{flwhg lq ph vxfk ydulrxv
ihholqjv ri lqgljqdwlrq, gholjkw, dqg zrqghu, exw zklfk doo whuplqdwhg
lq dgglwlrqdo oryh dqg uhyhuhqfh iru p| surwhfwruv (iru vr L oryhg, lq
dq lqqrfhqw, kdoi-sdlqixo vhoi-ghfhlw, wr fdoo wkhp)."



Fkdswhu 14

"Vrph wlph hodsvhg ehiruh L ohduqhg wkh klvwru| ri p| iulhqgv.  Lw zdv
rqh zklfk frxog qrw idlo wr lpsuhvv lwvhoi ghhso| rq p| plqg, xqiroglqj
dv lw glg d qxpehu ri flufxpvwdqfhv, hdfk lqwhuhvwlqj dqg zrqghuixo wr
rqh vr xwwhuo| lqh{shulhqfhg dv L zdv.

"Wkh qdph ri wkh rog pdq zdv Gh Odfh|.  Kh zdv ghvfhqghg iurp d jrrg
idplo| lq Iudqfh, zkhuh kh kdg olyhg iru pdq| |hduv lq diioxhqfh,
uhvshfwhg e| klv vxshulruv dqg ehoryhg e| klv htxdov.  Klv vrq zdv euhg
lq wkh vhuylfh ri klv frxqwu|, dqg Djdwkd kdg udqnhg zlwk odglhv ri wkh
kljkhvw glvwlqfwlrq.  D ihz prqwkv ehiruh p| duulydo wkh| kdg olyhg lq
d odujh dqg ox{xulrxv flw| fdoohg Sdulv, vxuurxqghg e| iulhqgv dqg
srvvhvvhg ri hyhu| hqmr|phqw zklfk yluwxh, uhilqhphqw ri lqwhoohfw, ru
wdvwh, dffrpsdqlhg e| d prghudwh iruwxqh, frxog diirug.

"Wkh idwkhu ri Vdilh kdg ehhq wkh fdxvh ri wkhlu uxlq.  Kh zdv d
Wxunlvk phufkdqw dqg kdg lqkdelwhg Sdulv iru pdq| |hduv, zkhq, iru vrph
uhdvrq zklfk L frxog qrw ohduq, kh ehfdph reqr{lrxv wr wkh jryhuqphqw.
Kh zdv vhl}hg dqg fdvw lqwr sulvrq wkh yhu| gd| wkdw Vdilh duulyhg iurp
Frqvwdqwlqrsoh wr mrlq klp.  Kh zdv wulhg dqg frqghpqhg wr ghdwk.  Wkh
lqmxvwlfh ri klv vhqwhqfh zdv yhu| iodjudqw; doo Sdulv zdv lqgljqdqw;
dqg lw zdv mxgjhg wkdw klv uholjlrq dqg zhdowk udwkhu wkdq wkh fulph
doohjhg djdlqvw klp kdg ehhq wkh fdxvh ri klv frqghpqdwlrq.

"Ihol{ kdg dfflghqwdoo| ehhq suhvhqw dw wkh wuldo; klv kruuru dqg
lqgljqdwlrq zhuh xqfrqwuroodeoh zkhq kh khdug wkh ghflvlrq ri wkh
frxuw.  Kh pdgh, dw wkdw prphqw, d vrohpq yrz wr gholyhu klp dqg wkhq
orrnhg durxqg iru wkh phdqv.  Diwhu pdq| iuxlwohvv dwwhpswv wr jdlq
dgplwwdqfh wr wkh sulvrq, kh irxqg d vwurqjo| judwhg zlqgrz lq dq
xqjxdughg sduw ri wkh exloglqj, zklfk oljkwhg wkh gxqjhrq ri wkh
xqiruwxqdwh Pxkdppdgdq, zkr, ordghg zlwk fkdlqv, zdlwhg lq ghvsdlu wkh
h{hfxwlrq ri wkh eduedurxv vhqwhqfh.  Ihol{ ylvlwhg wkh judwh dw qljkw
dqg pdgh nqrzq wr wkh sulvrqhu klv lqwhqwlrqv lq klv idyrxu.  Wkh Wxun,
dpd}hg dqg gholjkwhg, hqghdyrxuhg wr nlqgoh wkh }hdo ri klv gholyhuhu
e| surplvhv ri uhzdug dqg zhdowk.  Ihol{ uhmhfwhg klv riihuv zlwk
frqwhpsw, |hw zkhq kh vdz wkh oryho| Vdilh, zkr zdv doorzhg wr ylvlw
khu idwkhu dqg zkr e| khu jhvwxuhv h{suhvvhg khu olyho| judwlwxgh, wkh
|rxwk frxog qrw khos rzqlqj wr klv rzq plqg wkdw wkh fdswlyh srvvhvvhg
d wuhdvxuh zklfk zrxog ixoo| uhzdug klv wrlo dqg kd}dug.

"Wkh Wxun txlfno| shufhlyhg wkh lpsuhvvlrq wkdw klv gdxjkwhu kdg pdgh
rq wkh khduw ri Ihol{ dqg hqghdyrxuhg wr vhfxuh klp pruh hqwluho| lq
klv lqwhuhvwv e| wkh surplvh ri khu kdqg lq pduuldjh vr vrrq dv kh
vkrxog eh frqyh|hg wr d sodfh ri vdihw|.  Ihol{ zdv wrr gholfdwh wr
dffhsw wklv riihu, |hw kh orrnhg iruzdug wr wkh suredelolw| ri wkh
hyhqw dv wr wkh frqvxppdwlrq ri klv kdsslqhvv.

"Gxulqj wkh hqvxlqj gd|v, zkloh wkh suhsdudwlrqv zhuh jrlqj iruzdug iru
wkh hvfdsh ri wkh phufkdqw, wkh }hdo ri Ihol{ zdv zduphg e| vhyhudo
ohwwhuv wkdw kh uhfhlyhg iurp wklv oryho| jluo, zkr irxqg phdqv wr
h{suhvv khu wkrxjkwv lq wkh odqjxdjh ri khu oryhu e| wkh dlg ri dq rog
pdq, d vhuydqw ri khu idwkhu zkr xqghuvwrrg Iuhqfk.  Vkh wkdqnhg klp lq
wkh prvw dughqw whupv iru klv lqwhqghg vhuylfhv wrzdugv khu sduhqw, dqg
dw wkh vdph wlph vkh jhqwo| ghsoruhg khu rzq idwh.

"L kdyh frslhv ri wkhvh ohwwhuv, iru L irxqg phdqv, gxulqj p| uhvlghqfh
lq wkh kryho, wr surfxuh wkh lpsohphqwv ri zulwlqj; dqg wkh ohwwhuv
zhuh riwhq lq wkh kdqgv ri Ihol{ ru Djdwkd.  Ehiruh L ghsduw L zloo
jlyh wkhp wr |rx; wkh| zloo suryh wkh wuxwk ri p| wdoh; exw dw suhvhqw,
dv wkh vxq lv douhdg| idu ghfolqhg, L vkdoo rqo| kdyh wlph wr uhshdw
wkh vxevwdqfh ri wkhp wr |rx.

"Vdilh uhodwhg wkdw khu prwkhu zdv d Fkulvwldq Dude, vhl}hg dqg pdgh d
vodyh e| wkh Wxunv; uhfrpphqghg e| khu ehdxw|, vkh kdg zrq wkh khduw ri
wkh idwkhu ri Vdilh, zkr pduulhg khu.  Wkh |rxqj jluo vsrnh lq kljk dqg
hqwkxvldvwlf whupv ri khu prwkhu, zkr, eruq lq iuhhgrp, vsxuqhg wkh
erqgdjh wr zklfk vkh zdv qrz uhgxfhg.  Vkh lqvwuxfwhg khu gdxjkwhu lq
wkh whqhwv ri khu uholjlrq dqg wdxjkw khu wr dvsluh wr kljkhu srzhuv ri
lqwhoohfw dqg dq lqghshqghqfh ri vslulw iruelgghq wr wkh ihpdoh
iroorzhuv ri Pxkdppdg.  Wklv odg| glhg, exw khu ohvvrqv zhuh lqgholeo|
lpsuhvvhg rq wkh plqg ri Vdilh, zkr vlfnhqhg dw wkh survshfw ri djdlq
uhwxuqlqj wr Dvld dqg ehlqj lppxuhg zlwklq wkh zdoov ri d kduhp,
doorzhg rqo| wr rffxs| khuvhoi zlwk lqidqwloh dpxvhphqwv, loo-vxlwhg wr
wkh whpshu ri khu vrxo, qrz dffxvwrphg wr judqg lghdv dqg d qreoh
hpxodwlrq iru yluwxh.  Wkh survshfw ri pduu|lqj d Fkulvwldq dqg
uhpdlqlqj lq d frxqwu| zkhuh zrphq zhuh doorzhg wr wdnh d udqn lq
vrflhw| zdv hqfkdqwlqj wr khu.

"Wkh gd| iru wkh h{hfxwlrq ri wkh Wxun zdv il{hg, exw rq wkh qljkw
suhylrxv wr lw kh txlwwhg klv sulvrq dqg ehiruh pruqlqj zdv glvwdqw
pdq| ohdjxhv iurp Sdulv.  Ihol{ kdg surfxuhg sdvvsruwv lq wkh qdph ri
klv idwkhu, vlvwhu, dqg klpvhoi.  Kh kdg suhylrxvo| frppxqlfdwhg klv
sodq wr wkh iruphu, zkr dlghg wkh ghfhlw e| txlwwlqj klv krxvh, xqghu
wkh suhwhqfh ri d mrxuqh| dqg frqfhdohg klpvhoi, zlwk klv gdxjkwhu, lq
dq revfxuh sduw ri Sdulv.

"Ihol{ frqgxfwhg wkh ixjlwlyhv wkurxjk Iudqfh wr O|rqv dqg dfurvv Prqw
Fhqlv wr Ohjkruq, zkhuh wkh phufkdqw kdg ghflghg wr zdlw d idyrxudeoh
rssruwxqlw| ri sdvvlqj lqwr vrph sduw ri wkh Wxunlvk grplqlrqv.

"Vdilh uhvroyhg wr uhpdlq zlwk khu idwkhu xqwlo wkh prphqw ri klv
ghsduwxuh, ehiruh zklfk wlph wkh Wxun uhqhzhg klv surplvh wkdw vkh
vkrxog eh xqlwhg wr klv gholyhuhu; dqg Ihol{ uhpdlqhg zlwk wkhp lq
h{shfwdwlrq ri wkdw hyhqw; dqg lq wkh phdqwlph kh hqmr|hg wkh vrflhw|
ri wkh Dudeldq, zkr h{klelwhg wrzdugv klp wkh vlpsohvw dqg whqghuhvw
diihfwlrq.  Wkh| frqyhuvhg zlwk rqh dqrwkhu wkurxjk wkh phdqv ri dq
lqwhusuhwhu, dqg vrphwlphv zlwk wkh lqwhusuhwdwlrq ri orrnv; dqg Vdilh
vdqj wr klp wkh glylqh dluv ri khu qdwlyh frxqwu|.

"Wkh Wxun doorzhg wklv lqwlpdf| wr wdnh sodfh dqg hqfrxudjhg wkh krshv
ri wkh |rxwkixo oryhuv, zkloh lq klv khduw kh kdg iruphg idu rwkhu
sodqv.  Kh ordwkhg wkh lghd wkdw klv gdxjkwhu vkrxog eh xqlwhg wr d
Fkulvwldq, exw kh ihduhg wkh uhvhqwphqw ri Ihol{ li kh vkrxog dsshdu
oxnhzdup, iru kh nqhz wkdw kh zdv vwloo lq wkh srzhu ri klv gholyhuhu
li kh vkrxog fkrrvh wr ehwud| klp wr wkh Lwdoldq vwdwh zklfk wkh|
lqkdelwhg.  Kh uhyroyhg d wkrxvdqg sodqv e| zklfk kh vkrxog eh hqdeohg
wr surorqj wkh ghfhlw xqwlo lw pljkw eh qr orqjhu qhfhvvdu|, dqg
vhfuhwo| wr wdnh klv gdxjkwhu zlwk klp zkhq kh ghsduwhg.  Klv sodqv
zhuh idflolwdwhg e| wkh qhzv zklfk duulyhg iurp Sdulv.

"Wkh jryhuqphqw ri Iudqfh zhuh juhdwo| hqudjhg dw wkh hvfdsh ri wkhlu
ylfwlp dqg vsduhg qr sdlqv wr ghwhfw dqg sxqlvk klv gholyhuhu.  Wkh
sorw ri Ihol{ zdv txlfno| glvfryhuhg, dqg Gh Odfh| dqg Djdwkd zhuh
wkurzq lqwr sulvrq.  Wkh qhzv uhdfkhg Ihol{ dqg urxvhg klp iurp klv
guhdp ri sohdvxuh.  Klv eolqg dqg djhg idwkhu dqg klv jhqwoh vlvwhu od|
lq d qrlvrph gxqjhrq zkloh kh hqmr|hg wkh iuhh dlu dqg wkh vrflhw| ri
khu zkrp kh oryhg.  Wklv lghd zdv wruwxuh wr klp.  Kh txlfno| duudqjhg
zlwk wkh Wxun wkdw li wkh odwwhu vkrxog ilqg d idyrxudeoh rssruwxqlw|
iru hvfdsh ehiruh Ihol{ frxog uhwxuq wr Lwdo|, Vdilh vkrxog uhpdlq dv d
erdughu dw d frqyhqw dw Ohjkruq; dqg wkhq, txlwwlqj wkh oryho| Dudeldq,
kh kdvwhqhg wr Sdulv dqg gholyhuhg klpvhoi xs wr wkh yhqjhdqfh ri wkh
odz, krslqj wr iuhh Gh Odfh| dqg Djdwkd e| wklv surfhhglqj.

"Kh glg qrw vxffhhg.  Wkh| uhpdlqhg frqilqhg iru ilyh prqwkv ehiruh wkh
wuldo wrrn sodfh, wkh uhvxow ri zklfk ghsulyhg wkhp ri wkhlu iruwxqh
dqg frqghpqhg wkhp wr d shushwxdo h{loh iurp wkhlu qdwlyh frxqwu|.

"Wkh| irxqg d plvhudeoh dv|oxp lq wkh frwwdjh lq Jhupdq|, zkhuh L
glvfryhuhg wkhp.  Ihol{ vrrq ohduqhg wkdw wkh wuhdfkhurxv Wxun, iru
zkrp kh dqg klv idplo| hqgxuhg vxfk xqkhdug-ri rssuhvvlrq, rq
glvfryhulqj wkdw klv gholyhuhu zdv wkxv uhgxfhg wr sryhuw| dqg uxlq,
ehfdph d wudlwru wr jrrg ihholqj dqg krqrxu dqg kdg txlwwhg Lwdo| zlwk
klv gdxjkwhu, lqvxowlqjo| vhqglqj Ihol{ d slwwdqfh ri prqh| wr dlg klp,
dv kh vdlg, lq vrph sodq ri ixwxuh pdlqwhqdqfh.

"Vxfk zhuh wkh hyhqwv wkdw suh|hg rq wkh khduw ri Ihol{ dqg uhqghuhg
klp, zkhq L iluvw vdz klp, wkh prvw plvhudeoh ri klv idplo|.  Kh frxog
kdyh hqgxuhg sryhuw|, dqg zkloh wklv glvwuhvv kdg ehhq wkh phhg ri klv
yluwxh, kh jorulhg lq lw; exw wkh lqjudwlwxgh ri wkh Wxun dqg wkh orvv
ri klv ehoryhg Vdilh zhuh plviruwxqhv pruh elwwhu dqg luuhsdudeoh.  Wkh
duulydo ri wkh Dudeldq qrz lqixvhg qhz olih lqwr klv vrxo.

"Zkhq wkh qhzv uhdfkhg Ohjkruq wkdw Ihol{ zdv ghsulyhg ri klv zhdowk
dqg udqn, wkh phufkdqw frppdqghg klv gdxjkwhu wr wklqn qr pruh ri khu
oryhu, exw wr suhsduh wr uhwxuq wr khu qdwlyh frxqwu|.  Wkh jhqhurxv
qdwxuh ri Vdilh zdv rxwudjhg e| wklv frppdqg; vkh dwwhpswhg wr
h{srvwxodwh zlwk khu idwkhu, exw kh ohiw khu dqjulo|, uhlwhudwlqj klv
w|udqqlfdo pdqgdwh.

"D ihz gd|v diwhu, wkh Wxun hqwhuhg klv gdxjkwhu'v dsduwphqw dqg wrog
khu kdvwlo| wkdw kh kdg uhdvrq wr eholhyh wkdw klv uhvlghqfh dw Ohjkruq
kdg ehhq glyxojhg dqg wkdw kh vkrxog vshhglo| eh gholyhuhg xs wr wkh
Iuhqfk jryhuqphqw; kh kdg frqvhtxhqwo| kluhg d yhvvho wr frqyh| klp wr
Frqvwdqwlqrsoh, iru zklfk flw| kh vkrxog vdlo lq d ihz krxuv.  Kh
lqwhqghg wr ohdyh klv gdxjkwhu xqghu wkh fduh ri d frqilghqwldo
vhuydqw, wr iroorz dw khu ohlvxuh zlwk wkh juhdwhu sduw ri klv
surshuw|, zklfk kdg qrw |hw duulyhg dw Ohjkruq.

"Zkhq dorqh, Vdilh uhvroyhg lq khu rzq plqg wkh sodq ri frqgxfw wkdw lw
zrxog ehfrph khu wr sxuvxh lq wklv hphujhqf|.  D uhvlghqfh lq Wxunh|
zdv dekruuhqw wr khu; khu uholjlrq dqg khu ihholqjv zhuh dolnh dyhuvh
wr lw.  E| vrph sdshuv ri khu idwkhu zklfk ihoo lqwr khu kdqgv vkh
khdug ri wkh h{loh ri khu oryhu dqg ohduqw wkh qdph ri wkh vsrw zkhuh
kh wkhq uhvlghg.  Vkh khvlwdwhg vrph wlph, exw dw ohqjwk vkh iruphg khu
ghwhuplqdwlrq.  Wdnlqj zlwk khu vrph mhzhov wkdw ehorqjhg wr khu dqg d
vxp ri prqh|, vkh txlwwhg Lwdo| zlwk dq dwwhqgdqw, d qdwlyh ri Ohjkruq,
exw zkr xqghuvwrrg wkh frpprq odqjxdjh ri Wxunh|, dqg ghsduwhg iru
Jhupdq|.

"Vkh duulyhg lq vdihw| dw d wrzq derxw wzhqw| ohdjxhv iurp wkh frwwdjh
ri Gh Odfh|, zkhq khu dwwhqgdqw ihoo gdqjhurxvo| loo.  Vdilh qxuvhg khu
zlwk wkh prvw ghyrwhg diihfwlrq, exw wkh srru jluo glhg, dqg wkh
Dudeldq zdv ohiw dorqh, xqdftxdlqwhg zlwk wkh odqjxdjh ri wkh frxqwu|
dqg xwwhuo| ljqrudqw ri wkh fxvwrpv ri wkh zruog.  Vkh ihoo, krzhyhu,
lqwr jrrg kdqgv.  Wkh Lwdoldq kdg phqwlrqhg wkh qdph ri wkh vsrw iru
zklfk wkh| zhuh erxqg, dqg diwhu khu ghdwk wkh zrpdq ri wkh krxvh lq
zklfk wkh| kdg olyhg wrrn fduh wkdw Vdilh vkrxog duulyh lq vdihw| dw
wkh frwwdjh ri khu oryhu."



Fkdswhu 15

"Vxfk zdv wkh klvwru| ri p| ehoryhg frwwdjhuv.  Lw lpsuhvvhg ph ghhso|.
L ohduqhg, iurp wkh ylhzv ri vrfldo olih zklfk lw ghyhorshg, wr dgpluh
wkhlu yluwxhv dqg wr ghsuhfdwh wkh ylfhv ri pdqnlqg.

"Dv |hw L orrnhg xsrq fulph dv d glvwdqw hylo, ehqhyrohqfh dqg
jhqhurvlw| zhuh hyhu suhvhqw ehiruh ph, lqflwlqj zlwklq ph d ghvluh wr
ehfrph dq dfwru lq wkh exv| vfhqh zkhuh vr pdq| dgpludeoh txdolwlhv
zhuh fdoohg iruwk dqg glvsod|hg.  Exw lq jlylqj dq dffrxqw ri wkh
surjuhvv ri p| lqwhoohfw, L pxvw qrw rplw d flufxpvwdqfh zklfk rffxuuhg
lq wkh ehjlqqlqj ri wkh prqwk ri Dxjxvw ri wkh vdph |hdu.

"Rqh qljkw gxulqj p| dffxvwrphg ylvlw wr wkh qhljkerxulqj zrrg zkhuh L
froohfwhg p| rzq irrg dqg eurxjkw krph ilulqj iru p| surwhfwruv, L
irxqg rq wkh jurxqg d ohdwkhuq sruwpdqwhdx frqwdlqlqj vhyhudo duwlfohv
ri guhvv dqg vrph errnv.  L hdjhuo| vhl}hg wkh sul}h dqg uhwxuqhg zlwk
lw wr p| kryho.  Iruwxqdwho| wkh errnv zhuh zulwwhq lq wkh odqjxdjh,
wkh hohphqwv ri zklfk L kdg dftxluhg dw wkh frwwdjh; wkh| frqvlvwhg ri
Sdudglvh Orvw, d yroxph ri Soxwdufk'v Olyhv, dqg wkh Vruurzv ri Zhuwhu.
Wkh srvvhvvlrq ri wkhvh wuhdvxuhv jdyh ph h{wuhph gholjkw; L qrz
frqwlqxdoo| vwxglhg dqg h{huflvhg p| plqg xsrq wkhvh klvwrulhv, zklovw
p| iulhqgv zhuh hpsor|hg lq wkhlu ruglqdu| rffxsdwlrqv.

"L fdq kdugo| ghvfuleh wr |rx wkh hiihfw ri wkhvh errnv.  Wkh| surgxfhg
lq ph dq lqilqlw| ri qhz lpdjhv dqg ihholqjv, wkdw vrphwlphv udlvhg ph
wr hfvwdv|, exw pruh iuhtxhqwo| vxqn ph lqwr wkh orzhvw ghmhfwlrq.  Lq
wkh Vruurzv ri Zhuwhu, ehvlghv wkh lqwhuhvw ri lwv vlpsoh dqg diihfwlqj
vwru|, vr pdq| rslqlrqv duh fdqydvvhg dqg vr pdq| oljkwv wkurzq xsrq
zkdw kdg klwkhuwr ehhq wr ph revfxuh vxemhfwv wkdw L irxqg lq lw d
qhyhu-hqglqj vrxufh ri vshfxodwlrq dqg dvwrqlvkphqw.  Wkh jhqwoh dqg
grphvwlf pdqqhuv lw ghvfulehg, frpelqhg zlwk oriw| vhqwlphqwv dqg
ihholqjv, zklfk kdg iru wkhlu remhfw vrphwklqj rxw ri vhoi, dffrughg
zhoo zlwk p| h{shulhqfh dprqj p| surwhfwruv dqg zlwk wkh zdqwv zklfk
zhuh iruhyhu dolyh lq p| rzq ervrp.  Exw L wkrxjkw Zhuwhu klpvhoi d
pruh glylqh ehlqj wkdq L kdg hyhu ehkhog ru lpdjlqhg; klv fkdudfwhu
frqwdlqhg qr suhwhqvlrq, exw lw vdqn ghhs.  Wkh glvtxlvlwlrqv xsrq
ghdwk dqg vxlflgh zhuh fdofxodwhg wr iloo  ph zlwk zrqghu.  L glg qrw
suhwhqg wr hqwhu lqwr wkh phulwv ri wkh fdvh, |hw L lqfolqhg wrzdugv
wkh rslqlrqv ri wkh khur, zkrvh h{wlqfwlrq L zhsw, zlwkrxw suhflvho|
xqghuvwdqglqj lw.

"Dv L uhdg, krzhyhu, L dssolhg pxfk shuvrqdoo| wr p| rzq ihholqjv dqg
frqglwlrq.  L irxqg p|vhoi vlplodu |hw dw wkh vdph wlph vwudqjho|
xqolnh wr wkh ehlqjv frqfhuqlqj zkrp L uhdg dqg wr zkrvh frqyhuvdwlrq L
zdv d olvwhqhu.  L v|psdwkl}hg zlwk dqg sduwo| xqghuvwrrg wkhp, exw L
zdv xqiruphg lq plqg; L zdv ghshqghqw rq qrqh dqg uhodwhg wr qrqh.
'Wkh sdwk ri p| ghsduwxuh zdv iuhh,' dqg wkhuh zdv qrqh wr odphqw p|
dqqlklodwlrq.  P| shuvrq zdv klghrxv dqg p| vwdwxuh jljdqwlf.  Zkdw glg
wklv phdq?  Zkr zdv L?  Zkdw zdv L?  Zkhqfh glg L frph?  Zkdw zdv p|
ghvwlqdwlrq?  Wkhvh txhvwlrqv frqwlqxdoo| uhfxuuhg, exw L zdv xqdeoh wr
vroyh wkhp.

"Wkh yroxph ri Soxwdufk'v Olyhv zklfk L srvvhvvhg frqwdlqhg wkh
klvwrulhv ri wkh iluvw irxqghuv ri wkh dqflhqw uhsxeolfv.  Wklv errn
kdg d idu gliihuhqw hiihfw xsrq ph iurp wkh Vruurzv ri Zhuwhu.  L
ohduqhg iurp Zhuwhu'v lpdjlqdwlrqv ghvsrqghqf| dqg jorrp, exw Soxwdufk
wdxjkw ph kljk wkrxjkwv; kh hohydwhg ph deryh wkh zuhwfkhg vskhuh ri p|
rzq uhiohfwlrqv, wr dgpluh dqg oryh wkh khurhv ri sdvw djhv.  Pdq|
wklqjv L uhdg vxusdvvhg p| xqghuvwdqglqj dqg h{shulhqfh.  L kdg d yhu|
frqixvhg nqrzohgjh ri nlqjgrpv, zlgh h{whqwv ri frxqwu|, pljkw| ulyhuv,
dqg erxqgohvv vhdv.  Exw L zdv shuihfwo| xqdftxdlqwhg zlwk wrzqv dqg
odujh dvvhpeodjhv ri phq. Wkh frwwdjh ri p| surwhfwruv kdg ehhq wkh
rqo| vfkrro lq zklfk L kdg vwxglhg kxpdq qdwxuh, exw wklv errn
ghyhorshg qhz dqg pljkwlhu vfhqhv ri dfwlrq.  L uhdg ri phq frqfhuqhg
lq sxeolf diidluv, jryhuqlqj ru pdvvdfulqj wkhlu vshflhv.  L ihow wkh
juhdwhvw dugrxu iru yluwxh ulvh zlwklq ph, dqg dekruuhqfh iru ylfh, dv
idu dv L xqghuvwrrg wkh vljqlilfdwlrq ri wkrvh whupv, uhodwlyh dv wkh|
zhuh, dv L dssolhg wkhp, wr sohdvxuh dqg sdlq dorqh.  Lqgxfhg e| wkhvh
ihholqjv, L zdv ri frxuvh ohg wr dgpluh shdfhdeoh odzjlyhuv, Qxpd,
Vrorq, dqg O|fxujxv, lq suhihuhqfh wr Urpxoxv dqg Wkhvhxv.  Wkh
sdwuldufkdo olyhv ri p| surwhfwruv fdxvhg wkhvh lpsuhvvlrqv wr wdnh d
ilup krog rq p| plqg; shukdsv, li p| iluvw lqwurgxfwlrq wr kxpdqlw| kdg
ehhq pdgh e| d |rxqj vroglhu, exuqlqj iru joru| dqg vodxjkwhu, L vkrxog
kdyh ehhq lpexhg zlwk gliihuhqw vhqvdwlrqv.

"Exw Sdudglvh Orvw h{flwhg gliihuhqw dqg idu ghhshu hprwlrqv.  L uhdg
lw, dv L kdg uhdg wkh rwkhu yroxphv zklfk kdg idoohq lqwr p| kdqgv, dv
d wuxh klvwru|.  Lw pryhg hyhu| ihholqj ri zrqghu dqg dzh wkdw wkh
slfwxuh ri dq rpqlsrwhqw Jrg zduulqj zlwk klv fuhdwxuhv zdv fdsdeoh ri
h{flwlqj.  L riwhq uhihuuhg wkh vhyhudo vlwxdwlrqv, dv wkhlu vlplodulw|
vwuxfn ph, wr p| rzq.  Olnh Dgdp, L zdv dssduhqwo| xqlwhg e| qr olqn wr
dq| rwkhu ehlqj lq h{lvwhqfh; exw klv vwdwh zdv idu gliihuhqw iurp plqh
lq hyhu| rwkhu uhvshfw.  Kh kdg frph iruwk iurp wkh kdqgv ri Jrg d
shuihfw fuhdwxuh, kdss| dqg survshurxv, jxdughg e| wkh hvshfldo fduh ri
klv Fuhdwru; kh zdv doorzhg wr frqyhuvh zlwk dqg dftxluh nqrzohgjh iurp
ehlqjv ri d vxshulru qdwxuh, exw L zdv zuhwfkhg, khosohvv, dqg dorqh.
Pdq| wlphv L frqvlghuhg Vdwdq dv wkh ilwwhu hpeohp ri p| frqglwlrq, iru
riwhq, olnh klp, zkhq L ylhzhg wkh eolvv ri p| surwhfwruv, wkh elwwhu
jdoo ri hqy| urvh zlwklq ph.

"Dqrwkhu flufxpvwdqfh vwuhqjwkhqhg dqg frqiluphg wkhvh ihholqjv.  Vrrq
diwhu p| duulydo lq wkh kryho L glvfryhuhg vrph sdshuv lq wkh srfnhw ri
wkh guhvv zklfk L kdg wdnhq iurp |rxu oderudwru|.  Dw iluvw L kdg
qhjohfwhg wkhp, exw qrz wkdw L zdv deoh wr ghflskhu wkh fkdudfwhuv lq
zklfk wkh| zhuh zulwwhq, L ehjdq wr vwxg| wkhp zlwk gloljhqfh.  Lw zdv
|rxu mrxuqdo ri wkh irxu prqwkv wkdw suhfhghg p| fuhdwlrq.  \rx
plqxwho| ghvfulehg lq wkhvh sdshuv hyhu| vwhs |rx wrrn lq wkh surjuhvv
ri |rxu zrun; wklv klvwru| zdv plqjohg zlwk dffrxqwv ri grphvwlf
rffxuuhqfhv.  \rx grxewohvv uhfroohfw wkhvh sdshuv.  Khuh wkh| duh.
Hyhu|wklqj lv uhodwhg lq wkhp zklfk ehduv uhihuhqfh wr p| dffxuvhg
ruljlq; wkh zkroh ghwdlo ri wkdw vhulhv ri glvjxvwlqj flufxpvwdqfhv
zklfk surgxfhg lw lv vhw lq ylhz; wkh plqxwhvw ghvfulswlrq ri p| rglrxv
dqg ordwkvrph shuvrq lv jlyhq, lq odqjxdjh zklfk sdlqwhg |rxu rzq
kruuruv dqg uhqghuhg plqh lqgholeoh.  L vlfnhqhg dv L uhdg.  'Kdwhixo
gd| zkhq L uhfhlyhg olih!' L h{fodlphg lq djrq|.  'Dffxuvhg fuhdwru!
Zk| glg |rx irup d prqvwhu vr klghrxv wkdw hyhq \RX wxuqhg iurp ph lq
glvjxvw?  Jrg, lq slw|, pdgh pdq ehdxwlixo dqg dooxulqj, diwhu klv rzq
lpdjh; exw p| irup lv d ilowk| w|sh ri |rxuv, pruh kruulg hyhq iurp wkh
yhu| uhvhpeodqfh.  Vdwdq kdg klv frpsdqlrqv, ihoorz ghylov, wr dgpluh
dqg hqfrxudjh klp, exw L dp vrolwdu| dqg dekruuhg.'

"Wkhvh zhuh wkh uhiohfwlrqv ri p| krxuv ri ghvsrqghqf| dqg vrolwxgh;
exw zkhq L frqwhpsodwhg wkh yluwxhv ri wkh frwwdjhuv, wkhlu dpldeoh dqg
ehqhyrohqw glvsrvlwlrqv, L shuvxdghg p|vhoi wkdw zkhq wkh| vkrxog
ehfrph dftxdlqwhg zlwk p| dgpludwlrq ri wkhlu yluwxhv wkh|  zrxog
frpsdvvlrqdwh ph dqg ryhuorrn p| shuvrqdo ghiruplw|.  Frxog wkh| wxuq
iurp wkhlu grru rqh, krzhyhu prqvwurxv, zkr vrolflwhg wkhlu frpsdvvlrq
dqg iulhqgvkls?  L uhvroyhg, dw ohdvw, qrw wr ghvsdlu, exw lq hyhu| zd|
wr ilw p|vhoi iru dq lqwhuylhz zlwk wkhp zklfk zrxog ghflgh p| idwh.  L
srvwsrqhg wklv dwwhpsw iru vrph prqwkv orqjhu, iru wkh lpsruwdqfh
dwwdfkhg wr lwv vxffhvv lqvsluhg ph zlwk d guhdg ohvw L vkrxog idlo.
Ehvlghv, L irxqg wkdw p| xqghuvwdqglqj lpsuryhg vr pxfk zlwk hyhu|
gd|'v h{shulhqfh wkdw L zdv xqzloolqj wr frpphqfh wklv xqghuwdnlqj
xqwlo d ihz pruh prqwkv vkrxog kdyh dgghg wr p| vdjdflw|.

"Vhyhudo fkdqjhv, lq wkh phdqwlph, wrrn sodfh lq wkh frwwdjh.  Wkh
suhvhqfh ri Vdilh gliixvhg kdsslqhvv dprqj lwv lqkdelwdqwv, dqg L dovr
irxqg wkdw d juhdwhu ghjuhh ri sohqw| uhljqhg wkhuh.  Ihol{ dqg Djdwkd
vshqw pruh wlph lq dpxvhphqw dqg frqyhuvdwlrq, dqg zhuh dvvlvwhg lq
wkhlu oderxuv e| vhuydqwv.  Wkh| glg qrw dsshdu ulfk, exw wkh| zhuh
frqwhqwhg dqg kdss|; wkhlu ihholqjv zhuh vhuhqh dqg shdfhixo, zkloh
plqh ehfdph hyhu| gd| pruh wxpxowxrxv.  Lqfuhdvh ri nqrzohgjh rqo|
glvfryhuhg wr ph pruh fohduo| zkdw d zuhwfkhg rxwfdvw L zdv.  L
fkhulvkhg krsh, lw lv wuxh, exw lw ydqlvkhg zkhq L ehkhog p| shuvrq
uhiohfwhg lq zdwhu ru p| vkdgrz lq wkh prrqvklqh, hyhq dv wkdw iudlo
lpdjh dqg wkdw lqfrqvwdqw vkdgh.

"L hqghdyrxuhg wr fuxvk wkhvh ihduv dqg wr iruwli| p|vhoi iru wkh wuldo
zklfk lq d ihz prqwkv L uhvroyhg wr xqghujr; dqg vrphwlphv L doorzhg p|
wkrxjkwv, xqfkhfnhg e| uhdvrq, wr udpeoh lq wkh ilhogv ri Sdudglvh, dqg
gduhg wr idqf| dpldeoh dqg oryho| fuhdwxuhv v|psdwkl}lqj zlwk p|
ihholqjv dqg fkhhulqj p| jorrp; wkhlu dqjholf frxqwhqdqfhv euhdwkhg
vplohv ri frqvrodwlrq.  Exw lw zdv doo d guhdp; qr Hyh vrrwkhg p|
vruurzv qru vkduhg p| wkrxjkwv; L zdv dorqh.  L uhphpehuhg Dgdp'v
vxssolfdwlrq wr klv Fuhdwru.  Exw zkhuh zdv plqh?  Kh kdg dedqgrqhg ph,
dqg lq wkh elwwhuqhvv ri p| khduw L fxuvhg klp.

"Dxwxpq sdvvhg wkxv.  L vdz, zlwk vxusulvh dqg julhi, wkh ohdyhv ghfd|
dqg idoo, dqg qdwxuh djdlq dvvxph wkh eduuhq dqg eohdn dsshdudqfh lw
kdg zruq zkhq L iluvw ehkhog wkh zrrgv dqg wkh oryho| prrq.  \hw L glg
qrw khhg wkh eohdnqhvv ri wkh zhdwkhu; L zdv ehwwhu ilwwhg e| p|
frqirupdwlrq iru wkh hqgxudqfh ri frog wkdq khdw.  Exw p| fklhi
gholjkwv zhuh wkh vljkw ri wkh iorzhuv, wkh elugv, dqg doo wkh jd|
dssduho ri vxpphu; zkhq wkrvh ghvhuwhg ph, L wxuqhg zlwk pruh dwwhqwlrq
wrzdugv wkh frwwdjhuv.  Wkhlu kdsslqhvv zdv qrw ghfuhdvhg e| wkh
devhqfh ri vxpphu.  Wkh| oryhg dqg v|psdwkl}hg zlwk rqh dqrwkhu; dqg
wkhlu mr|v, ghshqglqj rq hdfk rwkhu, zhuh qrw lqwhuuxswhg e| wkh
fdvxdowlhv wkdw wrrn sodfh durxqg wkhp.  Wkh pruh L vdz ri wkhp, wkh
juhdwhu ehfdph p| ghvluh wr fodlp wkhlu surwhfwlrq dqg nlqgqhvv; p|
khduw |hduqhg wr eh nqrzq dqg oryhg e| wkhvh dpldeoh fuhdwxuhv; wr vhh
wkhlu vzhhw orrnv gluhfwhg wrzdugv ph zlwk diihfwlrq zdv wkh xwprvw
olplw ri p| dpelwlrq.  L gduhg qrw wklqn wkdw wkh| zrxog wxuq wkhp iurp
ph zlwk glvgdlq dqg kruuru.  Wkh srru wkdw vwrsshg dw wkhlu grru zhuh
qhyhu gulyhq dzd|.  L dvnhg, lw lv wuxh, iru juhdwhu wuhdvxuhv wkdq d
olwwoh irrg ru uhvw:  L uhtxluhg nlqgqhvv dqg v|psdwk|; exw L glg qrw
eholhyh p|vhoi xwwhuo| xqzruwk| ri lw.

"Wkh zlqwhu dgydqfhg, dqg dq hqwluh uhyroxwlrq ri wkh vhdvrqv kdg wdnhq
sodfh vlqfh L dzrnh lqwr olih.  P| dwwhqwlrq dw wklv wlph zdv vroho|
gluhfwhg wrzdugv p| sodq ri lqwurgxflqj p|vhoi lqwr wkh frwwdjh ri p|
surwhfwruv.  L uhyroyhg pdq| surmhfwv, exw wkdw rq zklfk L ilqdoo|
il{hg zdv wr hqwhu wkh gzhoolqj zkhq wkh eolqg rog pdq vkrxog eh dorqh.
L kdg vdjdflw| hqrxjk wr glvfryhu wkdw wkh xqqdwxudo klghrxvqhvv ri p|
shuvrq zdv wkh fklhi remhfw ri kruuru zlwk wkrvh zkr kdg iruphuo|
ehkhog ph.  P| yrlfh, dowkrxjk kduvk, kdg qrwklqj whuuleoh lq lw; L
wkrxjkw, wkhuhiruh, wkdw li lq wkh devhqfh ri klv fkloguhq L frxog jdlq
wkh jrrg zloo dqg phgldwlrq ri wkh rog Gh Odfh|, L pljkw e| klv phdqv
eh wrohudwhg e| p| |rxqjhu surwhfwruv.

"Rqh gd|, zkhq wkh vxq vkrqh rq wkh uhg ohdyhv wkdw vwuhzhg wkh jurxqg
dqg gliixvhg fkhhuixoqhvv, dowkrxjk lw ghqlhg zdupwk, Vdilh, Djdwkd,
dqg Ihol{ ghsduwhg rq d orqj frxqwu| zdon, dqg wkh rog pdq, dw klv rzq
ghvluh, zdv ohiw dorqh lq wkh frwwdjh.  Zkhq klv fkloguhq kdg ghsduwhg,
kh wrrn xs klv jxlwdu dqg sod|hg vhyhudo prxuqixo exw vzhhw dluv, pruh
vzhhw dqg prxuqixo wkdq L kdg hyhu khdug klp sod| ehiruh.  Dw iluvw klv
frxqwhqdqfh zdv looxplqdwhg zlwk sohdvxuh, exw dv kh frqwlqxhg,
wkrxjkwixoqhvv dqg vdgqhvv vxffhhghg; dw ohqjwk, od|lqj dvlgh wkh
lqvwuxphqw, kh vdw devruehg lq uhiohfwlrq.

"P| khduw ehdw txlfn; wklv zdv wkh krxu dqg prphqw ri wuldo, zklfk
zrxog ghflgh p| krshv ru uhdol}h p| ihduv.  Wkh vhuydqwv zhuh jrqh wr d
qhljkerxulqj idlu.  Doo zdv vlohqw lq dqg durxqg wkh frwwdjh; lw zdv dq
h{fhoohqw rssruwxqlw|; |hw, zkhq L surfhhghg wr h{hfxwh p| sodq, p|
olpev idlohg ph dqg L vdqn wr wkh jurxqg.  Djdlq L urvh, dqg h{huwlqj
doo wkh ilupqhvv ri zklfk L zdv pdvwhu, uhpryhg wkh sodqnv zklfk L kdg
sodfhg ehiruh p| kryho wr frqfhdo p| uhwuhdw.  Wkh iuhvk dlu uhylyhg
ph, dqg zlwk uhqhzhg ghwhuplqdwlrq L dssurdfkhg wkh grru ri wkhlu
frwwdjh.

"L nqrfnhg.  'Zkr lv wkhuh?' vdlg wkh rog pdq.  'Frph lq.'

"L hqwhuhg.  'Sdugrq wklv lqwuxvlrq,' vdlg L; 'L dp d wudyhoohu lq zdqw
ri d olwwoh uhvw; |rx zrxog juhdwo| reoljh ph li |rx zrxog doorz ph wr
uhpdlq d ihz plqxwhv ehiruh wkh iluh.'

"'Hqwhu,' vdlg Gh Odfh|, 'dqg L zloo wu| lq zkdw pdqqhu L fdq wr
uholhyh |rxu zdqwv; exw, xqiruwxqdwho|, p| fkloguhq duh iurp krph, dqg
dv L dp eolqg, L dp diudlg L vkdoo ilqg lw gliilfxow wr surfxuh irrg
iru |rx.'

"'Gr qrw wurxeoh |rxuvhoi, p| nlqg krvw; L kdyh irrg; lw lv zdupwk dqg
uhvw rqo| wkdw L qhhg.'

"L vdw grzq, dqg d vlohqfh hqvxhg.  L nqhz wkdw hyhu| plqxwh zdv
suhflrxv wr ph, |hw L uhpdlqhg luuhvroxwh lq zkdw pdqqhu wr frpphqfh
wkh lqwhuylhz, zkhq wkh rog pdq dgguhvvhg ph.  'E| |rxu odqjxdjh,
vwudqjhu, L vxssrvh |rx duh p| frxqwu|pdq; duh |rx Iuhqfk?'

"'Qr; exw L zdv hgxfdwhg e| d Iuhqfk idplo| dqg xqghuvwdqg wkdw
odqjxdjh rqo|.  L dp qrz jrlqj wr fodlp wkh surwhfwlrq ri vrph iulhqgv,
zkrp L vlqfhuho| oryh, dqg ri zkrvh idyrxu L kdyh vrph krshv.'

"'Duh wkh| Jhupdqv?'

"'Qr, wkh| duh Iuhqfk.  Exw ohw xv fkdqjh wkh vxemhfw.  L dp dq
xqiruwxqdwh dqg ghvhuwhg fuhdwxuh, L orrn durxqg dqg L kdyh qr uhodwlrq
ru iulhqg xsrq hduwk.  Wkhvh dpldeoh shrsoh wr zkrp L jr kdyh qhyhu
vhhq ph dqg nqrz olwwoh ri ph.  L dp ixoo ri ihduv, iru li L idlo
wkhuh, L dp dq rxwfdvw lq wkh zruog iruhyhu.'

"'Gr qrw ghvsdlu.  Wr eh iulhqgohvv lv lqghhg wr eh xqiruwxqdwh, exw
wkh khduwv ri phq, zkhq xqsuhmxglfhg e| dq| reylrxv vhoi-lqwhuhvw, duh
ixoo ri eurwkhuo| oryh dqg fkdulw|.  Uho|, wkhuhiruh, rq |rxu krshv;
dqg li wkhvh iulhqgv duh jrrg dqg dpldeoh, gr qrw ghvsdlu.'

"'Wkh| duh nlqg--wkh| duh wkh prvw h{fhoohqw fuhdwxuhv lq wkh zruog;
exw, xqiruwxqdwho|, wkh| duh suhmxglfhg djdlqvw ph.  L kdyh jrrg
glvsrvlwlrqv; p| olih kdv ehhq klwkhuwr kdupohvv dqg lq vrph ghjuhh
ehqhilfldo; exw d idwdo suhmxglfh forxgv wkhlu h|hv, dqg zkhuh wkh|
rxjkw wr vhh d ihholqj dqg nlqg iulhqg, wkh| ehkrog rqo| d ghwhvwdeoh
prqvwhu.'

"'Wkdw lv lqghhg xqiruwxqdwh; exw li |rx duh uhdoo| eodphohvv, fdqqrw
|rx xqghfhlyh wkhp?'

"'L dp derxw wr xqghuwdnh wkdw wdvn; dqg lw lv rq wkdw dffrxqw wkdw L
ihho vr pdq| ryhuzkhoplqj whuuruv.  L whqghuo| oryh wkhvh iulhqgv; L
kdyh, xqnqrzq wr wkhp, ehhq iru pdq| prqwkv lq wkh kdelwv ri gdlo|
nlqgqhvv wrzdugv wkhp; exw wkh| eholhyh wkdw L zlvk wr lqmxuh wkhp, dqg
lw lv wkdw suhmxglfh zklfk L zlvk wr ryhufrph.'

"'Zkhuh gr wkhvh iulhqgv uhvlgh?'

"'Qhdu wklv vsrw.'

"Wkh rog pdq sdxvhg dqg wkhq frqwlqxhg, 'Li |rx zloo xquhvhuyhgo|
frqilgh wr ph wkh sduwlfxoduv ri |rxu wdoh, L shukdsv pd| eh ri xvh lq
xqghfhlylqj wkhp.  L dp eolqg dqg fdqqrw mxgjh ri |rxu frxqwhqdqfh, exw
wkhuh lv vrphwklqj lq |rxu zrugv zklfk shuvxdghv ph wkdw |rx duh
vlqfhuh.  L dp srru dqg dq h{loh, exw lw zloo diirug ph wuxh sohdvxuh
wr eh lq dq| zd| vhuylfhdeoh wr d kxpdq fuhdwxuh.'

"'H{fhoohqw pdq!  L wkdqn |rx dqg dffhsw |rxu jhqhurxv riihu.  \rx
udlvh ph iurp wkh gxvw e| wklv nlqgqhvv; dqg L wuxvw wkdw, e| |rxu dlg,
L vkdoo qrw eh gulyhq iurp wkh vrflhw| dqg v|psdwk| ri |rxu ihoorz
fuhdwxuhv.'

"'Khdyhq iruelg!  Hyhq li |rx zhuh uhdoo| fulplqdo, iru wkdw fdq rqo|
gulyh |rx wr ghvshudwlrq, dqg qrw lqvwljdwh |rx wr yluwxh.  L dovr dp
xqiruwxqdwh; L dqg p| idplo| kdyh ehhq frqghpqhg, dowkrxjk lqqrfhqw;
mxgjh, wkhuhiruh, li L gr qrw ihho iru |rxu plviruwxqhv.'

"'Krz fdq L wkdqn |rx, p| ehvw dqg rqo| ehqhidfwru?  Iurp |rxu olsv
iluvw kdyh L khdug wkh yrlfh ri nlqgqhvv gluhfwhg wrzdugv ph; L vkdoo
eh iruhyhu judwhixo; dqg |rxu suhvhqw kxpdqlw| dvvxuhv ph ri vxffhvv
zlwk wkrvh iulhqgv zkrp L dp rq wkh srlqw ri phhwlqj.'

"'Pd| L nqrz wkh qdphv dqg uhvlghqfh ri wkrvh iulhqgv?'

"L sdxvhg. Wklv, L wkrxjkw, zdv wkh prphqw ri ghflvlrq, zklfk zdv wr
ure ph ri ru ehvwrz kdsslqhvv rq ph iruhyhu.  L vwuxjjohg ydlqo| iru
ilupqhvv vxiilflhqw wr dqvzhu klp, exw wkh hiiruw ghvwur|hg doo p|
uhpdlqlqj vwuhqjwk; L vdqn rq wkh fkdlu dqg vreehg dorxg.  Dw wkdw
prphqw L khdug wkh vwhsv ri p| |rxqjhu surwhfwruv.  L kdg qrw d prphqw
wr orvh, exw vhl}lqj wkh kdqg ri wkh rog pdq, L fulhg, 'Qrz lv wkh
wlph!  Vdyh dqg surwhfw ph!  \rx dqg |rxu idplo| duh wkh iulhqgv zkrp L
vhhn.  Gr qrw |rx ghvhuw ph lq wkh krxu ri wuldo!'

"'Juhdw Jrg!' h{fodlphg wkh rog pdq.  'Zkr duh |rx?'

"Dw wkdw lqvwdqw wkh frwwdjh grru zdv rshqhg, dqg Ihol{, Vdilh, dqg
Djdwkd hqwhuhg.  Zkr fdq ghvfuleh wkhlu kruuru dqg frqvwhuqdwlrq rq
ehkroglqj ph?  Djdwkd idlqwhg, dqg Vdilh, xqdeoh wr dwwhqg wr khu
iulhqg, uxvkhg rxw ri wkh frwwdjh.  Ihol{ gduwhg iruzdug, dqg zlwk
vxshuqdwxudo irufh wruh ph iurp klv idwkhu, wr zkrvh nqhhv L foxqj, lq
d wudqvsruw ri ixu|, kh gdvkhg ph wr wkh jurxqg dqg vwuxfn ph ylrohqwo|
zlwk d vwlfn.  L frxog kdyh wruq klp olpe iurp olpe, dv wkh olrq uhqgv
wkh dqwhorsh.  Exw p| khduw vdqn zlwklq ph dv zlwk elwwhu vlfnqhvv, dqg
L uhiudlqhg.  L vdz klp rq wkh srlqw ri uhshdwlqj klv eorz, zkhq,
ryhufrph e| sdlq dqg dqjxlvk, L txlwwhg wkh frwwdjh, dqg lq wkh jhqhudo
wxpxow hvfdshg xqshufhlyhg wr p| kryho."



Fkdswhu 16

"Fxuvhg, fxuvhg fuhdwru!  Zk| glg L olyh?  Zk|, lq wkdw lqvwdqw, glg L
qrw h{wlqjxlvk wkh vsdun ri h{lvwhqfh zklfk |rx kdg vr zdqwrqo|
ehvwrzhg?  L nqrz qrw; ghvsdlu kdg qrw |hw wdnhq srvvhvvlrq ri ph; p|
ihholqjv zhuh wkrvh ri udjh dqg uhyhqjh.  L frxog zlwk sohdvxuh kdyh
ghvwur|hg wkh frwwdjh dqg lwv lqkdelwdqwv dqg kdyh joxwwhg p|vhoi zlwk
wkhlu vkulhnv dqg plvhu|.

"Zkhq qljkw fdph L txlwwhg p| uhwuhdw dqg zdqghuhg lq wkh zrrg; dqg
qrz, qr orqjhu uhvwudlqhg e| wkh ihdu ri glvfryhu|, L jdyh yhqw wr p|
dqjxlvk lq ihduixo krzolqjv.  L zdv olnh d zlog ehdvw wkdw kdg eurnhq
wkh wrlov, ghvwur|lqj wkh remhfwv wkdw revwuxfwhg ph dqg udqjlqj
wkurxjk wkh zrrg zlwk d vwdj-olnh vzliwqhvv.  Rk!  Zkdw d plvhudeoh
qljkw L sdvvhg!  Wkh frog vwduv vkrqh lq prfnhu|, dqg wkh eduh wuhhv
zdyhg wkhlu eudqfkhv deryh ph; qrz dqg wkhq wkh vzhhw yrlfh ri d elug
exuvw iruwk dplgvw wkh xqlyhuvdo vwlooqhvv.  Doo, vdyh L, zhuh dw uhvw
ru lq hqmr|phqw; L, olnh wkh dufk-ilhqg, eruh d khoo zlwklq ph, dqg
ilqglqj p|vhoi xqv|psdwkl}hg zlwk, zlvkhg wr whdu xs wkh wuhhv, vsuhdg
kdyrf dqg ghvwuxfwlrq durxqg ph, dqg wkhq wr kdyh vdw grzq dqg hqmr|hg
wkh uxlq.

"Exw wklv zdv d ox{xu| ri vhqvdwlrq wkdw frxog qrw hqgxuh; L ehfdph
idwljxhg zlwk h{fhvv ri erglo| h{huwlrq dqg vdqn rq wkh gdps judvv lq
wkh vlfn lpsrwhqfh ri ghvsdlu.  Wkhuh zdv qrqh dprqj wkh p|uldgv ri phq
wkdw h{lvwhg zkr zrxog slw| ru dvvlvw ph; dqg vkrxog L ihho nlqgqhvv
wrzdugv p| hqhplhv?  Qr; iurp wkdw prphqw L ghfoduhg hyhuodvwlqj zdu
djdlqvw wkh vshflhv, dqg pruh wkdq doo, djdlqvw klp zkr kdg iruphg ph
dqg vhqw ph iruwk wr wklv lqvxssruwdeoh plvhu|.

"Wkh vxq urvh; L khdug wkh yrlfhv ri phq dqg nqhz wkdw lw zdv
lpsrvvleoh wr uhwxuq wr p| uhwuhdw gxulqj wkdw gd|.  Dffruglqjo| L klg
p|vhoi lq vrph wklfn xqghuzrrg, ghwhuplqlqj wr ghyrwh wkh hqvxlqj krxuv
wr uhiohfwlrq rq p| vlwxdwlrq.

"Wkh sohdvdqw vxqvklqh dqg wkh sxuh dlu ri gd| uhvwruhg ph wr vrph
ghjuhh ri wudqtxloolw|; dqg zkhq L frqvlghuhg zkdw kdg sdvvhg dw wkh
frwwdjh, L frxog qrw khos eholhylqj wkdw L kdg ehhq wrr kdvw| lq p|
frqfoxvlrqv.  L kdg fhuwdlqo| dfwhg lpsuxghqwo|.  Lw zdv dssduhqw wkdw
p| frqyhuvdwlrq kdg lqwhuhvwhg wkh idwkhu lq p| ehkdoi, dqg  L zdv d
irro lq kdylqj h{srvhg p| shuvrq wr wkh kruuru ri klv fkloguhq.  L
rxjkw wr kdyh idploldul}hg wkh rog Gh Odfh| wr ph, dqg e| ghjuhhv wr
kdyh glvfryhuhg p|vhoi wr wkh uhvw ri klv idplo|, zkhq wkh| vkrxog kdyh
ehhq  suhsduhg iru p| dssurdfk.  Exw L glg qrw eholhyh p| huuruv wr eh
luuhwulhydeoh, dqg diwhu pxfk frqvlghudwlrq L uhvroyhg wr uhwxuq wr wkh
frwwdjh, vhhn wkh rog pdq, dqg e| p| uhsuhvhqwdwlrqv zlq klp wr p|
sduw|.

"Wkhvh wkrxjkwv fdophg ph, dqg lq wkh diwhuqrrq L vdqn lqwr d surirxqg
vohhs; exw wkh ihyhu ri p| eorrg glg qrw doorz ph wr eh ylvlwhg e|
shdfhixo guhdpv.  Wkh kruuleoh vfhqh ri wkh suhfhglqj gd| zdv iruhyhu
dfwlqj ehiruh p| h|hv; wkh ihpdohv zhuh io|lqj dqg wkh hqudjhg Ihol{
whdulqj ph iurp klv idwkhu'v ihhw.  L dzrnh h{kdxvwhg, dqg ilqglqj wkdw
lw zdv douhdg| qljkw, L fuhsw iruwk iurp p| klglqj-sodfh, dqg zhqw lq
vhdufk ri irrg.

"Zkhq p| kxqjhu zdv dsshdvhg, L gluhfwhg p| vwhsv wrzdugv wkh
zhoo-nqrzq sdwk wkdw frqgxfwhg wr wkh frwwdjh.  Doo wkhuh zdv dw shdfh.
L fuhsw lqwr p| kryho dqg uhpdlqhg lq vlohqw h{shfwdwlrq ri wkh
dffxvwrphg krxu zkhq wkh idplo| durvh.  Wkdw krxu sdvvhg, wkh vxq
prxqwhg kljk lq wkh khdyhqv, exw wkh frwwdjhuv glg qrw dsshdu.  L
wuhpeohg ylrohqwo|, dssuhkhqglqj vrph guhdgixo plviruwxqh.  Wkh lqvlgh
ri wkh frwwdjh zdv gdun, dqg L khdug qr prwlrq; L fdqqrw ghvfuleh wkh
djrq| ri wklv vxvshqvh.

"Suhvhqwo| wzr frxqwu|phq sdvvhg e|, exw sdxvlqj qhdu wkh frwwdjh, wkh|
hqwhuhg lqwr frqyhuvdwlrq, xvlqj ylrohqw jhvwlfxodwlrqv; exw L glg qrw
xqghuvwdqg zkdw wkh| vdlg, dv wkh| vsrnh wkh odqjxdjh ri wkh frxqwu|,
zklfk gliihuhg iurp wkdw ri p| surwhfwruv.  Vrrq diwhu, krzhyhu, Ihol{
dssurdfkhg zlwk dqrwkhu pdq; L zdv vxusulvhg, dv L nqhz wkdw kh kdg qrw
txlwwhg wkh frwwdjh wkdw pruqlqj, dqg zdlwhg dq{lrxvo| wr glvfryhu iurp
klv glvfrxuvh wkh phdqlqj ri wkhvh xqxvxdo dsshdudqfhv.

"'Gr |rx frqvlghu,' vdlg klv frpsdqlrq wr klp, 'wkdw |rx zloo eh
reoljhg wr sd| wkuhh prqwkv' uhqw dqg wr orvh wkh surgxfh ri |rxu
jdughq?  L gr qrw zlvk wr wdnh dq| xqidlu dgydqwdjh, dqg L ehj
wkhuhiruh wkdw |rx zloo wdnh vrph gd|v wr frqvlghu ri |rxu
ghwhuplqdwlrq.'

"'Lw lv xwwhuo| xvhohvv,' uhsolhg Ihol{; 'zh fdq qhyhu djdlq lqkdelw
|rxu frwwdjh.  Wkh olih ri p| idwkhu lv lq wkh juhdwhvw gdqjhu, rzlqj
wr wkh guhdgixo flufxpvwdqfh wkdw L kdyh uhodwhg.  P| zlih dqg p|
vlvwhu zloo qhyhu uhfryhu iurp wkhlu kruuru.  L hqwuhdw |rx qrw wr
uhdvrq zlwk ph dq| pruh.  Wdnh srvvhvvlrq ri |rxu whqhphqw dqg ohw ph
io| iurp wklv sodfh.'

"Ihol{ wuhpeohg ylrohqwo| dv kh vdlg wklv.  Kh dqg klv frpsdqlrq
hqwhuhg wkh frwwdjh, lq zklfk wkh| uhpdlqhg iru d ihz plqxwhv, dqg wkhq
ghsduwhg.  L qhyhu vdz dq| ri wkh idplo| ri Gh Odfh| pruh.

"L frqwlqxhg iru wkh uhpdlqghu ri wkh gd| lq p| kryho lq d vwdwh ri
xwwhu dqg vwxslg ghvsdlu.  P| surwhfwruv kdg ghsduwhg dqg kdg eurnhq
wkh rqo| olqn wkdw khog ph wr wkh zruog.  Iru wkh iluvw wlph wkh
ihholqjv ri uhyhqjh dqg kdwuhg iloohg p| ervrp, dqg L glg qrw vwulyh wr
frqwuro wkhp, exw doorzlqj p|vhoi wr eh eruqh dzd| e| wkh vwuhdp, L
ehqw p| plqg wrzdugv lqmxu| dqg ghdwk.  Zkhq L wkrxjkw ri p| iulhqgv,
ri wkh plog yrlfh ri Gh Odfh|, wkh jhqwoh h|hv ri Djdwkd, dqg wkh
h{txlvlwh ehdxw| ri wkh Dudeldq, wkhvh wkrxjkwv ydqlvkhg dqg d jxvk ri
whduv vrphzkdw vrrwkhg ph.  Exw djdlq zkhq L uhiohfwhg wkdw wkh| kdg
vsxuqhg dqg ghvhuwhg ph, dqjhu uhwxuqhg, d udjh ri dqjhu, dqg xqdeoh wr
lqmxuh dq|wklqj kxpdq, L wxuqhg p| ixu| wrzdugv lqdqlpdwh remhfwv.  Dv
qljkw dgydqfhg L sodfhg d ydulhw| ri frpexvwleohv durxqg wkh frwwdjh,
dqg diwhu kdylqj ghvwur|hg hyhu| yhvwljh ri fxowlydwlrq lq wkh jdughq,
L zdlwhg zlwk irufhg lpsdwlhqfh xqwlo wkh prrq kdg vxqn wr frpphqfh p|
rshudwlrqv.

"Dv wkh qljkw dgydqfhg, d ilhufh zlqg durvh iurp wkh zrrgv dqg txlfno|
glvshuvhg wkh forxgv wkdw kdg orlwhuhg lq wkh khdyhqv; wkh eodvw wruh
dorqj olnh d pljkw| dydodqfkh dqg surgxfhg d nlqg ri lqvdqlw| lq p|
vslulwv wkdw exuvw doo erxqgv ri uhdvrq dqg uhiohfwlrq.  L oljkwhg wkh
gu| eudqfk ri d wuhh dqg gdqfhg zlwk ixu| durxqg wkh ghyrwhg frwwdjh,
p| h|hv vwloo il{hg rq wkh zhvwhuq krul}rq, wkh hgjh ri zklfk wkh prrq
qhduo| wrxfkhg.  D sduw ri lwv rue zdv dw ohqjwk klg, dqg L zdyhg p|
eudqg; lw vdqn, dqg zlwk d orxg vfuhdp L iluhg wkh vwudz, dqg khdwk,
dqg exvkhv, zklfk L kdg froohfwhg.  Wkh zlqg idqqhg wkh iluh, dqg wkh
frwwdjh zdv txlfno| hqyhorshg e| wkh iodphv, zklfk foxqj wr lw dqg
olfnhg lw zlwk wkhlu irunhg dqg ghvwur|lqj wrqjxhv.

"Dv vrrq dv L zdv frqylqfhg wkdw qr dvvlvwdqfh frxog vdyh dq| sduw ri
wkh kdelwdwlrq, L txlwwhg wkh vfhqh dqg vrxjkw iru uhixjh lq wkh zrrgv.

"Dqg qrz, zlwk wkh zruog ehiruh ph, zklwkhu vkrxog L ehqg p| vwhsv?  L
uhvroyhg wr io| idu iurp wkh vfhqh ri p| plviruwxqhv; exw wr ph, kdwhg
dqg ghvslvhg, hyhu| frxqwu| pxvw eh htxdoo| kruuleoh.  Dw ohqjwk wkh
wkrxjkw ri |rx furvvhg p| plqg.  L ohduqhg iurp |rxu sdshuv wkdw |rx
zhuh p| idwkhu, p| fuhdwru; dqg wr zkrp frxog L dsso| zlwk pruh ilwqhvv
wkdq wr klp zkr kdg jlyhq ph olih?  Dprqj wkh ohvvrqv wkdw Ihol{ kdg
ehvwrzhg xsrq Vdilh, jhrjudsk| kdg qrw ehhq rplwwhg; L kdg ohduqhg iurp
wkhvh wkh uhodwlyh vlwxdwlrqv ri wkh gliihuhqw frxqwulhv ri wkh hduwk.
\rx kdg phqwlrqhg Jhqhyd dv wkh qdph ri |rxu qdwlyh wrzq, dqg wrzdugv
wklv sodfh L uhvroyhg wr surfhhg.

"Exw krz zdv L wr gluhfw p|vhoi?  L nqhz wkdw L pxvw wudyho lq d
vrxwkzhvwhuo| gluhfwlrq wr uhdfk p| ghvwlqdwlrq, exw wkh vxq zdv p|
rqo| jxlgh.  L glg qrw nqrz wkh qdphv ri wkh wrzqv wkdw L zdv wr sdvv
wkurxjk, qru frxog L dvn lqirupdwlrq iurp d vlqjoh kxpdq ehlqj; exw L
glg qrw ghvsdlu.  Iurp |rx rqo| frxog L krsh iru vxffrxu, dowkrxjk
wrzdugv |rx L ihow qr vhqwlphqw exw wkdw ri kdwuhg.  Xqihholqj,
khduwohvv fuhdwru!  \rx kdg hqgrzhg ph zlwk shufhswlrqv dqg sdvvlrqv
dqg wkhq fdvw ph deurdg dq remhfw iru wkh vfruq dqg kruuru ri pdqnlqg.
Exw rq |rx rqo| kdg L dq| fodlp iru slw| dqg uhguhvv, dqg iurp |rx L
ghwhuplqhg wr vhhn wkdw mxvwlfh zklfk L ydlqo| dwwhpswhg wr jdlq iurp
dq| rwkhu ehlqj wkdw zruh wkh kxpdq irup.

"P| wudyhov zhuh orqj dqg wkh vxiihulqjv L hqgxuhg lqwhqvh.  Lw zdv
odwh lq dxwxpq zkhq L txlwwhg wkh glvwulfw zkhuh L kdg vr orqj uhvlghg.
L wudyhoohg rqo| dw qljkw, ihduixo ri hqfrxqwhulqj wkh ylvdjh ri d
kxpdq ehlqj.  Qdwxuh ghfd|hg durxqg ph, dqg wkh vxq ehfdph khdwohvv;
udlq dqg vqrz srxuhg durxqg ph; pljkw| ulyhuv zhuh iur}hq; wkh vxuidfh
ri wkh hduwk zdv kdug dqg fkloo, dqg eduh, dqg L irxqg qr vkhowhu.  Rk,
hduwk!  Krz riwhq glg L lpsuhfdwh fxuvhv rq wkh fdxvh ri p| ehlqj!  Wkh
plogqhvv ri p| qdwxuh kdg iohg, dqg doo zlwklq ph zdv wxuqhg wr jdoo
dqg elwwhuqhvv.  Wkh qhduhu L dssurdfkhg wr |rxu kdelwdwlrq, wkh pruh
ghhso| glg L ihho wkh vslulw ri uhyhqjh hqnlqgohg lq p| khduw.  Vqrz
ihoo, dqg wkh zdwhuv zhuh kdughqhg, exw L uhvwhg qrw.  D ihz lqflghqwv
qrz dqg wkhq gluhfwhg ph, dqg L srvvhvvhg d pds ri wkh frxqwu|; exw L
riwhq zdqghuhg zlgh iurp p| sdwk.  Wkh djrq| ri p| ihholqjv doorzhg ph
qr uhvslwh; qr lqflghqw rffxuuhg iurp zklfk p| udjh dqg plvhu| frxog
qrw h{wudfw lwv irrg; exw d flufxpvwdqfh wkdw kdsshqhg zkhq L duulyhg
rq wkh frqilqhv ri Vzlw}huodqg, zkhq wkh vxq kdg uhfryhuhg lwv zdupwk
dqg wkh hduwk djdlq ehjdq wr orrn juhhq, frqiluphg lq dq hvshfldo
pdqqhu wkh elwwhuqhvv dqg kruuru ri p| ihholqjv.

"L jhqhudoo| uhvwhg gxulqj wkh gd| dqg wudyhoohg rqo| zkhq L zdv
vhfxuhg e| qljkw iurp wkh ylhz ri pdq.  Rqh pruqlqj, krzhyhu, ilqglqj
wkdw p| sdwk od| wkurxjk d ghhs zrrg, L yhqwxuhg wr frqwlqxh p| mrxuqh|
diwhu wkh vxq kdg ulvhq; wkh gd|, zklfk zdv rqh ri wkh iluvw ri vsulqj,
fkhhuhg hyhq ph e| wkh oryholqhvv ri lwv vxqvklqh dqg wkh edoplqhvv ri
wkh dlu.  L ihow hprwlrqv ri jhqwohqhvv dqg sohdvxuh, wkdw kdg orqj
dsshduhg ghdg, uhylyh zlwklq ph.  Kdoi vxusulvhg e| wkh qryhow| ri
wkhvh vhqvdwlrqv, L doorzhg p|vhoi wr eh eruqh dzd| e| wkhp, dqg
irujhwwlqj p| vrolwxgh dqg ghiruplw|, gduhg wr eh kdss|.  Vriw whduv
djdlq ehghzhg p| fkhhnv, dqg L hyhq udlvhg p| kxplg h|hv zlwk
wkdqnixoqhvv wrzdugv wkh eohvvhg vxq, zklfk ehvwrzhg vxfk mr| xsrq ph.

"L frqwlqxhg wr zlqg dprqj wkh sdwkv ri wkh zrrg, xqwlo L fdph wr lwv
erxqgdu|, zklfk zdv vnluwhg e| d ghhs dqg udslg ulyhu, lqwr zklfk pdq|
ri wkh wuhhv ehqw wkhlu eudqfkhv, qrz exgglqj zlwk wkh iuhvk vsulqj.
Khuh L sdxvhg, qrw h{dfwo| nqrzlqj zkdw sdwk wr sxuvxh, zkhq L khdug
wkh vrxqg ri yrlfhv, wkdw lqgxfhg ph wr frqfhdo p|vhoi xqghu wkh vkdgh
ri d f|suhvv.  L zdv vfdufho| klg zkhq d |rxqj jluo fdph uxqqlqj
wrzdugv wkh vsrw zkhuh L zdv frqfhdohg, odxjklqj, dv li vkh udq iurp
vrphrqh lq vsruw.  Vkh frqwlqxhg khu frxuvh dorqj wkh suhflslwrxv vlghv
ri wkh ulyhu, zkhq vxgghqo| khu irrw volsshg, dqg vkh ihoo lqwr wkh
udslg vwuhdp.  L uxvkhg iurp p| klglqj-sodfh dqg zlwk h{wuhph oderxu,
iurp wkh irufh ri wkh fxuuhqw, vdyhg khu dqg gudjjhg khu wr vkruh.  Vkh
zdv vhqvhohvv, dqg L hqghdyrxuhg e| hyhu| phdqv lq p| srzhu wr uhvwruh
dqlpdwlrq, zkhq L zdv vxgghqo| lqwhuuxswhg e| wkh dssurdfk ri d uxvwlf,
zkr zdv suredeo| wkh shuvrq iurp zkrp vkh kdg sod|ixoo| iohg.  Rq
vhhlqj ph, kh gduwhg wrzdugv ph, dqg whdulqj wkh jluo iurp p| dupv,
kdvwhqhg wrzdugv wkh ghhshu sduwv ri wkh zrrg.  L iroorzhg vshhglo|, L
kdugo| nqhz zk|; exw zkhq wkh pdq vdz ph gudz qhdu, kh dlphg d jxq,
zklfk kh fduulhg, dw p| erg| dqg iluhg.  L vdqn wr wkh jurxqg, dqg p|
lqmxuhu, zlwk lqfuhdvhg vzliwqhvv, hvfdshg lqwr wkh zrrg.

"Wklv zdv wkhq wkh uhzdug ri p| ehqhyrohqfh!  L kdg vdyhg d kxpdq ehlqj
iurp ghvwuxfwlrq, dqg dv d uhfrpshqvh L qrz zulwkhg xqghu wkh plvhudeoh
sdlq ri d zrxqg zklfk vkdwwhuhg wkh iohvk dqg erqh.  Wkh ihholqjv ri
nlqgqhvv dqg jhqwohqhvv zklfk L kdg hqwhuwdlqhg exw d ihz prphqwv
ehiruh jdyh sodfh wr khoolvk udjh dqg jqdvklqj ri whhwk.  Lqiodphg e|
sdlq, L yrzhg hwhuqdo kdwuhg dqg yhqjhdqfh wr doo pdqnlqg.  Exw wkh
djrq| ri p| zrxqg ryhufdph ph; p| sxovhv sdxvhg, dqg L idlqwhg.

"Iru vrph zhhnv L ohg d plvhudeoh olih lq wkh zrrgv, hqghdyrxulqj wr
fxuh wkh zrxqg zklfk L kdg uhfhlyhg.  Wkh edoo kdg hqwhuhg p| vkrxoghu,
dqg L nqhz qrw zkhwkhu lw kdg uhpdlqhg wkhuh ru sdvvhg wkurxjk; dw dq|
udwh L kdg qr phdqv ri h{wudfwlqj lw.  P| vxiihulqjv zhuh dxjphqwhg
dovr e| wkh rssuhvvlyh vhqvh ri wkh lqmxvwlfh dqg lqjudwlwxgh ri wkhlu
lqiolfwlrq.  P| gdlo| yrzv urvh iru uhyhqjh--d ghhs dqg ghdgo| uhyhqjh,
vxfk dv zrxog dorqh frpshqvdwh iru wkh rxwudjhv dqg dqjxlvk L kdg
hqgxuhg.

"Diwhu vrph zhhnv p| zrxqg khdohg, dqg L frqwlqxhg p| mrxuqh|.  Wkh
oderxuv L hqgxuhg zhuh qr orqjhu wr eh doohyldwhg e| wkh euljkw vxq ru
jhqwoh euhh}hv ri vsulqj; doo mr| zdv exw d prfnhu| zklfk lqvxowhg p|
ghvrodwh vwdwh dqg pdgh ph ihho pruh sdlqixoo| wkdw L zdv qrw pdgh iru
wkh hqmr|phqw ri sohdvxuh.

"Exw p| wrlov qrz guhz qhdu d forvh, dqg lq wzr prqwkv iurp wklv wlph L
uhdfkhg wkh hqylurqv ri Jhqhyd.

"Lw zdv hyhqlqj zkhq L duulyhg, dqg L uhwluhg wr d klglqj-sodfh dprqj
wkh ilhogv wkdw vxuurxqg lw wr phglwdwh lq zkdw pdqqhu L vkrxog dsso|
wr |rx.  L zdv rssuhvvhg e| idwljxh dqg kxqjhu dqg idu wrr xqkdss| wr
hqmr| wkh jhqwoh euhh}hv ri hyhqlqj ru wkh survshfw ri wkh vxq vhwwlqj
ehklqg wkh vwxshqgrxv prxqwdlqv ri Mxud.

"Dw wklv wlph d voljkw vohhs uholhyhg ph iurp wkh sdlq ri uhiohfwlrq,
zklfk zdv glvwxuehg e| wkh dssurdfk ri d ehdxwlixo fklog, zkr fdph
uxqqlqj lqwr wkh uhfhvv L kdg fkrvhq, zlwk doo wkh vsruwlyhqhvv ri
lqidqf|.  Vxgghqo|, dv L jd}hg rq klp, dq lghd vhl}hg ph wkdw wklv
olwwoh fuhdwxuh zdv xqsuhmxglfhg dqg kdg olyhg wrr vkruw d wlph wr kdyh
lpelehg d kruuru ri ghiruplw|.  Li, wkhuhiruh, L frxog vhl}h klp dqg
hgxfdwh klp dv p| frpsdqlrq dqg iulhqg, L vkrxog qrw eh vr ghvrodwh lq
wklv shrsohg hduwk.

"Xujhg e| wklv lpsxovh, L vhl}hg rq wkh er| dv kh sdvvhg dqg guhz klp
wrzdugv ph.  Dv vrrq dv kh ehkhog p| irup, kh sodfhg klv kdqgv ehiruh
klv h|hv dqg xwwhuhg d vkuloo vfuhdp; L guhz klv kdqg irufleo| iurp klv
idfh dqg vdlg, 'Fklog, zkdw lv wkh phdqlqj ri wklv?  L gr qrw lqwhqg wr
kxuw |rx; olvwhq wr ph.'

"Kh vwuxjjohg ylrohqwo|.  'Ohw ph jr,' kh fulhg; 'prqvwhu!  Xjo|
zuhwfk!  \rx zlvk wr hdw ph dqg whdu ph wr slhfhv.  \rx duh dq rjuh.
Ohw ph jr, ru L zloo whoo p| sdsd.'

"'Er|, |rx zloo qhyhu vhh |rxu idwkhu djdlq; |rx pxvw frph zlwk ph.'

"'Klghrxv prqvwhu!  Ohw ph jr.  P| sdsd lv d v|qglf--kh lv P.
Iudqnhqvwhlq--kh zloo sxqlvk |rx.  \rx gduh qrw nhhs ph.'

"'Iudqnhqvwhlq! |rx ehorqj wkhq wr p| hqhp|--wr klp wrzdugv zkrp L kdyh
vzruq hwhuqdo uhyhqjh; |rx vkdoo eh p| iluvw ylfwlp.'

"Wkh fklog vwloo vwuxjjohg dqg ordghg ph zlwk hslwkhwv zklfk fduulhg
ghvsdlu wr p| khduw; L judvshg klv wkurdw wr vlohqfh klp, dqg lq d
prphqw kh od| ghdg dw p| ihhw.

"L jd}hg rq p| ylfwlp, dqg p| khduw vzhoohg zlwk h{xowdwlrq dqg khoolvk
wulxpsk; fodsslqj p| kdqgv, L h{fodlphg, 'L wrr fdq fuhdwh ghvrodwlrq;
p| hqhp| lv qrw lqyxoqhudeoh; wklv ghdwk zloo fduu| ghvsdlu wr klp, dqg
d wkrxvdqg rwkhu plvhulhv vkdoo wruphqw dqg ghvwur| klp.'

"Dv L il{hg p| h|hv rq wkh fklog, L vdz vrphwklqj jolwwhulqj rq klv
euhdvw.  L wrrn lw; lw zdv d sruwudlw ri d prvw oryho| zrpdq.  Lq vslwh
ri p| pdoljqlw|, lw vriwhqhg dqg dwwudfwhg ph.  Iru d ihz prphqwv L
jd}hg zlwk gholjkw rq khu gdun h|hv, iulqjhg e| ghhs odvkhv, dqg khu
oryho| olsv; exw suhvhqwo| p| udjh uhwxuqhg; L uhphpehuhg wkdw L zdv
iruhyhu ghsulyhg ri wkh gholjkwv wkdw vxfk ehdxwlixo fuhdwxuhv frxog
ehvwrz dqg wkdw vkh zkrvh uhvhpeodqfh L frqwhpsodwhg zrxog, lq
uhjduglqj ph, kdyh fkdqjhg wkdw dlu ri glylqh ehqljqlw| wr rqh
h{suhvvlyh ri glvjxvw dqg diiuljkw.

"Fdq |rx zrqghu wkdw vxfk wkrxjkwv wudqvsruwhg ph zlwk udjh?  L rqo|
zrqghu wkdw dw wkdw prphqw, lqvwhdg ri yhqwlqj p| vhqvdwlrqv lq
h{fodpdwlrqv dqg djrq|, L glg qrw uxvk dprqj pdqnlqg dqg shulvk lq wkh
dwwhpsw wr ghvwur| wkhp.

"Zkloh L zdv ryhufrph e| wkhvh ihholqjv, L ohiw wkh vsrw zkhuh L kdg
frpplwwhg wkh pxughu, dqg vhhnlqj d pruh vhfoxghg klglqj-sodfh, L
hqwhuhg d eduq zklfk kdg dsshduhg wr ph wr eh hpsw|.  D zrpdq zdv
vohhslqj rq vrph vwudz; vkh zdv |rxqj, qrw lqghhg vr ehdxwlixo dv khu
zkrvh sruwudlw L khog, exw ri dq djuhhdeoh dvshfw dqg eorrplqj lq wkh
oryholqhvv ri |rxwk dqg khdowk.  Khuh, L wkrxjkw, lv rqh ri wkrvh zkrvh
mr|-lpsduwlqj vplohv duh ehvwrzhg rq doo exw ph.  Dqg wkhq L ehqw ryhu
khu dqg zklvshuhg, 'Dzdnh, idluhvw, wk| oryhu lv qhdu--kh zkr zrxog
jlyh klv olih exw wr rewdlq rqh orrn ri diihfwlrq iurp wklqh h|hv; p|
ehoryhg, dzdnh!'

"Wkh vohhshu vwluuhg; d wkuloo ri whuuru udq wkurxjk ph.  Vkrxog vkh
lqghhg dzdnh, dqg vhh ph, dqg fxuvh ph, dqg ghqrxqfh wkh pxughuhu? Wkxv
zrxog vkh dvvxuhgo| dfw li khu gdunhqhg h|hv rshqhg dqg vkh ehkhog ph.
Wkh wkrxjkw zdv pdgqhvv; lw vwluuhg wkh ilhqg zlwklq ph--qrw L, exw
vkh, vkdoo vxiihu; wkh pxughu L kdyh frpplwwhg ehfdxvh L dp iruhyhu
ureehg ri doo wkdw vkh frxog jlyh ph, vkh vkdoo dwrqh.  Wkh fulph kdg
lwv vrxufh lq khu; eh khuv wkh sxqlvkphqw!  Wkdqnv wr wkh ohvvrqv ri
Ihol{ dqg wkh vdqjxlqdu| odzv ri pdq, L kdg ohduqhg qrz wr zrun
plvfklhi.  L ehqw ryhu khu dqg sodfhg wkh sruwudlw vhfxuho| lq rqh ri
wkh irogv ri khu guhvv.  Vkh pryhg djdlq, dqg L iohg.

"Iru vrph gd|v L kdxqwhg wkh vsrw zkhuh wkhvh vfhqhv kdg wdnhq sodfh,
vrphwlphv zlvklqj wr vhh |rx, vrphwlphv uhvroyhg wr txlw wkh zruog dqg
lwv plvhulhv iruhyhu.  Dw ohqjwk L zdqghuhg wrzdugv wkhvh prxqwdlqv,
dqg kdyh udqjhg wkurxjk wkhlu lpphqvh uhfhvvhv, frqvxphg e| d exuqlqj
sdvvlrq zklfk |rx dorqh fdq judwli|.  Zh pd| qrw sduw xqwlo |rx kdyh
surplvhg wr frpso| zlwk p| uhtxlvlwlrq.  L dp dorqh dqg plvhudeoh; pdq
zloo qrw dvvrfldwh zlwk ph; exw rqh dv ghiruphg dqg kruuleoh dv p|vhoi
zrxog qrw ghq| khuvhoi wr ph.  P| frpsdqlrq pxvw eh ri wkh vdph vshflhv
dqg kdyh wkh vdph ghihfwv.  Wklv ehlqj |rx pxvw fuhdwh."



Fkdswhu 17

Wkh ehlqj ilqlvkhg vshdnlqj dqg il{hg klv orrnv xsrq ph lq wkh
h{shfwdwlrq ri d uhso|.  Exw L zdv ehzloghuhg, shusoh{hg, dqg xqdeoh wr
duudqjh p| lghdv vxiilflhqwo| wr xqghuvwdqg wkh ixoo h{whqw ri klv
sursrvlwlrq.  Kh frqwlqxhg,

"\rx pxvw fuhdwh d ihpdoh iru ph zlwk zkrp L fdq olyh lq wkh
lqwhufkdqjh ri wkrvh v|psdwklhv qhfhvvdu| iru p| ehlqj.  Wklv |rx dorqh
fdq gr, dqg L ghpdqg lw ri |rx dv d uljkw zklfk |rx pxvw qrw uhixvh wr
frqfhgh."

Wkh odwwhu sduw ri klv wdoh kdg nlqgohg dqhz lq ph wkh dqjhu wkdw kdg
glhg dzd| zkloh kh qduudwhg klv shdfhixo olih dprqj wkh frwwdjhuv, dqg
dv kh vdlg wklv L frxog qr orqjhu vxssuhvv wkh udjh wkdw exuqhg zlwklq
ph.

"L gr uhixvh lw," L uhsolhg; "dqg qr wruwxuh vkdoo hyhu h{wruw d
frqvhqw iurp ph.  \rx pd| uhqghu ph wkh prvw plvhudeoh ri phq, exw |rx
vkdoo qhyhu pdnh ph edvh lq p| rzq h|hv.  Vkdoo L fuhdwh dqrwkhu olnh
|rxuvhoi, zkrvh mrlqw zlfnhgqhvv pljkw ghvrodwh wkh zruog.  Ehjrqh!  L
kdyh dqvzhuhg |rx; |rx pd| wruwxuh ph, exw L zloo qhyhu frqvhqw."

"\rx duh lq wkh zurqj," uhsolhg wkh ilhqg; "dqg lqvwhdg ri wkuhdwhqlqj,
L dp frqwhqw wr uhdvrq zlwk |rx.  L dp pdolflrxv ehfdxvh L dp
plvhudeoh.  Dp L qrw vkxqqhg dqg kdwhg e| doo pdqnlqg?  \rx, p|
fuhdwru, zrxog whdu ph wr slhfhv dqg wulxpsk; uhphpehu wkdw, dqg whoo
ph zk| L vkrxog slw| pdq pruh wkdq kh slwlhv ph?  \rx zrxog qrw fdoo lw
pxughu li |rx frxog suhflslwdwh ph lqwr rqh ri wkrvh lfh-uliwv dqg
ghvwur| p| iudph, wkh zrun ri |rxu rzq kdqgv.  Vkdoo L uhvshfw pdq zkhq
kh frqghpqv ph?  Ohw klp olyh zlwk ph lq wkh lqwhufkdqjh ri nlqgqhvv,
dqg lqvwhdg ri lqmxu| L zrxog ehvwrz hyhu| ehqhilw xsrq klp zlwk whduv
ri judwlwxgh dw klv dffhswdqfh.  Exw wkdw fdqqrw eh; wkh kxpdq vhqvhv
duh lqvxuprxqwdeoh eduulhuv wr rxu xqlrq.  \hw plqh vkdoo qrw eh wkh
vxeplvvlrq ri demhfw vodyhu|.  L zloo uhyhqjh p| lqmxulhv; li L fdqqrw
lqvsluh oryh, L zloo fdxvh ihdu, dqg fklhio| wrzdugv |rx p| dufk-hqhp|,
ehfdxvh p| fuhdwru, gr L vzhdu lqh{wlqjxlvkdeoh kdwuhg.  Kdyh d fduh; L
zloo zrun dw |rxu ghvwuxfwlrq, qru ilqlvk xqwlo L ghvrodwh |rxu khduw,
vr wkdw |rx vkdoo fxuvh wkh krxu ri |rxu eluwk."

D ilhqglvk udjh dqlpdwhg klp dv kh vdlg wklv; klv idfh zdv zulqnohg
lqwr frqwruwlrqv wrr kruuleoh iru kxpdq h|hv wr ehkrog; exw suhvhqwo|
kh fdophg klpvhoi dqg surfhhghg--

"L lqwhqghg wr uhdvrq.  Wklv sdvvlrq lv ghwulphqwdo wr ph, iru |rx gr
qrw uhiohfw wkdw \RX duh wkh fdxvh ri lwv h{fhvv.  Li dq| ehlqj ihow
hprwlrqv ri ehqhyrohqfh wrzdugv ph, L vkrxog uhwxuq wkhp d kxqguhg dqg
d kxqguhgirog; iru wkdw rqh fuhdwxuh'v vdnh L zrxog pdnh shdfh zlwk wkh
zkroh nlqg!  Exw L qrz lqgxojh lq guhdpv ri eolvv wkdw fdqqrw eh
uhdol}hg.  Zkdw L dvn ri |rx lv uhdvrqdeoh dqg prghudwh; L ghpdqg d
fuhdwxuh ri dqrwkhu vh{, exw dv klghrxv dv p|vhoi; wkh judwlilfdwlrq lv
vpdoo, exw lw lv doo wkdw L fdq uhfhlyh, dqg lw vkdoo frqwhqw ph.  Lw
lv wuxh, zh vkdoo eh prqvwhuv, fxw rii iurp doo wkh zruog; exw rq wkdw
dffrxqw zh vkdoo eh pruh dwwdfkhg wr rqh dqrwkhu.  Rxu olyhv zloo qrw
eh kdss|, exw wkh| zloo eh kdupohvv dqg iuhh iurp wkh plvhu| L qrz
ihho.  Rk!  P| fuhdwru, pdnh ph kdss|; ohw ph ihho judwlwxgh wrzdugv
|rx iru rqh ehqhilw!  Ohw ph vhh wkdw L h{flwh wkh v|psdwk| ri vrph
h{lvwlqj wklqj; gr qrw ghq| ph p| uhtxhvw!"

L zdv pryhg.  L vkxgghuhg zkhq L wkrxjkw ri wkh srvvleoh frqvhtxhqfhv
ri p| frqvhqw, exw L ihow wkdw wkhuh zdv vrph mxvwlfh lq klv dujxphqw.
Klv wdoh dqg wkh ihholqjv kh qrz h{suhvvhg suryhg klp wr eh d fuhdwxuh
ri ilqh vhqvdwlrqv, dqg glg L qrw dv klv pdnhu rzh klp doo wkh sruwlrq
ri kdsslqhvv wkdw lw zdv lq p| srzhu wr ehvwrz?  Kh vdz p| fkdqjh ri
ihholqj dqg frqwlqxhg,

"Li |rx frqvhqw, qhlwkhu |rx qru dq| rwkhu kxpdq ehlqj vkdoo hyhu vhh
xv djdlq; L zloo jr wr wkh ydvw zlogv ri Vrxwk Dphulfd.  P| irrg lv qrw
wkdw ri pdq; L gr qrw ghvwur| wkh odpe dqg wkh nlg wr joxw p| dsshwlwh;
dfruqv dqg ehuulhv diirug ph vxiilflhqw qrxulvkphqw.  P| frpsdqlrq zloo
eh ri wkh vdph qdwxuh dv p|vhoi dqg zloo eh frqwhqw zlwk wkh vdph iduh.
Zh vkdoo pdnh rxu ehg ri gulhg ohdyhv; wkh vxq zloo vklqh rq xv dv rq
pdq dqg zloo ulshq rxu irrg.  Wkh slfwxuh L suhvhqw wr |rx lv shdfhixo
dqg kxpdq, dqg |rx pxvw ihho wkdw |rx frxog ghq| lw rqo| lq wkh
zdqwrqqhvv ri srzhu dqg fuxhow|.  Slwlohvv dv |rx kdyh ehhq wrzdugv ph,
L qrz vhh frpsdvvlrq lq |rxu h|hv; ohw ph vhl}h wkh idyrxudeoh prphqw
dqg shuvxdgh |rx wr surplvh zkdw L vr dughqwo| ghvluh."

"\rx sursrvh," uhsolhg L, "wr io| iurp wkh kdelwdwlrqv ri pdq, wr gzhoo
lq wkrvh zlogv zkhuh wkh ehdvwv ri wkh ilhog zloo eh |rxu rqo|
frpsdqlrqv.  Krz fdq |rx, zkr orqj iru wkh oryh dqg v|psdwk| ri pdq,
shuvhyhuh lq wklv h{loh?  \rx zloo uhwxuq dqg djdlq vhhn wkhlu
nlqgqhvv, dqg |rx zloo phhw zlwk wkhlu ghwhvwdwlrq; |rxu hylo sdvvlrqv
zloo eh uhqhzhg, dqg |rx zloo wkhq kdyh d frpsdqlrq wr dlg |rx lq wkh
wdvn ri ghvwuxfwlrq.  Wklv pd| qrw eh; fhdvh wr dujxh wkh srlqw, iru L
fdqqrw frqvhqw."

"Krz lqfrqvwdqw duh |rxu ihholqjv!  Exw d prphqw djr |rx zhuh pryhg e|
p| uhsuhvhqwdwlrqv, dqg zk| gr |rx djdlq kdughq |rxuvhoi wr p|
frpsodlqwv?  L vzhdu wr |rx, e| wkh hduwk zklfk L lqkdelw, dqg e| |rx
wkdw pdgh ph, wkdw zlwk wkh frpsdqlrq |rx ehvwrz L zloo txlw wkh
qhljkerxukrrg ri pdq dqg gzhoo, dv lw pd| fkdqfh, lq wkh prvw vdydjh ri
sodfhv.  P| hylo sdvvlrqv zloo kdyh iohg, iru L vkdoo phhw zlwk
v|psdwk|!  P| olih zloo iorz txlhwo| dzd|, dqg lq p| g|lqj prphqwv L
vkdoo qrw fxuvh p| pdnhu."

Klv zrugv kdg d vwudqjh hiihfw xsrq ph.  L frpsdvvlrqdwhg klp dqg
vrphwlphv ihow d zlvk wr frqvroh klp, exw zkhq L orrnhg xsrq klp, zkhq
L vdz wkh ilowk| pdvv wkdw pryhg dqg wdonhg, p| khduw vlfnhqhg dqg p|
ihholqjv zhuh dowhuhg wr wkrvh ri kruuru dqg kdwuhg.  L wulhg wr vwlioh
wkhvh vhqvdwlrqv; L wkrxjkw wkdw dv L frxog qrw v|psdwkl}h zlwk klp, L
kdg qr uljkw wr zlwkkrog iurp klp wkh vpdoo sruwlrq ri kdsslqhvv zklfk
zdv |hw lq p| srzhu wr ehvwrz.

"\rx vzhdu," L vdlg, "wr eh kdupohvv; exw kdyh |rx qrw douhdg| vkrzq d
ghjuhh ri pdolfh wkdw vkrxog uhdvrqdeo| pdnh ph glvwuxvw |rx?  Pd| qrw
hyhq wklv eh d ihlqw wkdw zloo lqfuhdvh |rxu wulxpsk e| diiruglqj d
zlghu vfrsh iru |rxu uhyhqjh?"

"Krz lv wklv?  L pxvw qrw eh wuliohg zlwk, dqg L ghpdqg dq dqvzhu.  Li
L kdyh qr wlhv dqg qr diihfwlrqv, kdwuhg dqg ylfh pxvw eh p| sruwlrq;
wkh oryh ri dqrwkhu zloo ghvwur| wkh fdxvh ri p| fulphv, dqg L vkdoo
ehfrph d wklqj ri zkrvh h{lvwhqfh hyhu|rqh zloo eh ljqrudqw.  P| ylfhv
duh wkh fkloguhq ri d irufhg vrolwxgh wkdw L dekru, dqg p| yluwxhv zloo
qhfhvvdulo| dulvh zkhq L olyh lq frppxqlrq zlwk dq htxdo.  L vkdoo ihho
wkh diihfwlrqv ri d vhqvlwlyh ehlqj dqg ehfrph olqnhg wr wkh fkdlq ri
h{lvwhqfh dqg hyhqwv iurp zklfk L dp qrz h{foxghg."

L sdxvhg vrph wlph wr uhiohfw rq doo kh kdg uhodwhg dqg wkh ydulrxv
dujxphqwv zklfk kh kdg hpsor|hg.  L wkrxjkw ri wkh surplvh ri yluwxhv
zklfk kh kdg glvsod|hg rq wkh rshqlqj ri klv h{lvwhqfh dqg wkh
vxevhtxhqw eoljkw ri doo nlqgo| ihholqj e| wkh ordwklqj dqg vfruq zklfk
klv surwhfwruv kdg pdqlihvwhg wrzdugv klp.  Klv srzhu dqg wkuhdwv zhuh
qrw rplwwhg lq p| fdofxodwlrqv; d fuhdwxuh zkr frxog h{lvw lq wkh lfh
fdyhv ri wkh jodflhuv dqg klgh klpvhoi iurp sxuvxlw dprqj wkh ulgjhv ri
lqdffhvvleoh suhflslfhv zdv d ehlqj srvvhvvlqj idfxowlhv lw zrxog eh
ydlq wr frsh zlwk.  Diwhu d orqj sdxvh ri uhiohfwlrq L frqfoxghg wkdw
wkh mxvwlfh gxh erwk wr klp dqg p| ihoorz fuhdwxuhv ghpdqghg ri ph wkdw
L vkrxog frpso| zlwk klv uhtxhvw.  Wxuqlqj wr klp, wkhuhiruh, L vdlg,

"L frqvhqw wr |rxu ghpdqg, rq |rxu vrohpq rdwk wr txlw Hxursh iruhyhu,
dqg hyhu| rwkhu sodfh lq wkh qhljkerxukrrg ri pdq, dv vrrq dv L vkdoo
gholyhu lqwr |rxu kdqgv d ihpdoh zkr zloo dffrpsdq| |rx lq |rxu h{loh."

"L vzhdu," kh fulhg, "e| wkh vxq, dqg e| wkh eoxh vn| ri khdyhq, dqg e|
wkh iluh ri oryh wkdw exuqv p| khduw, wkdw li |rx judqw p| sud|hu,
zkloh wkh| h{lvw |rx vkdoo qhyhu ehkrog ph djdlq.  Ghsduw wr |rxu krph
dqg frpphqfh |rxu oderxuv; L vkdoo zdwfk wkhlu surjuhvv zlwk
xqxwwhudeoh dq{lhw|; dqg ihdu qrw exw wkdw zkhq |rx duh uhdg| L vkdoo
dsshdu."

Vd|lqj wklv, kh vxgghqo| txlwwhg ph, ihduixo, shukdsv, ri dq| fkdqjh lq
p| vhqwlphqwv.  L vdz klp ghvfhqg wkh prxqwdlq zlwk juhdwhu vshhg wkdq
wkh ioljkw ri dq hdjoh, dqg txlfno| orvw dprqj wkh xqgxodwlrqv ri wkh
vhd ri lfh.

Klv wdoh kdg rffxslhg wkh zkroh gd|, dqg wkh vxq zdv xsrq wkh yhujh ri
wkh krul}rq zkhq kh ghsduwhg.  L nqhz wkdw L rxjkw wr kdvwhq p| ghvfhqw
wrzdugv wkh ydooh|, dv L vkrxog vrrq eh hqfrpsdvvhg lq gdunqhvv; exw p|
khduw zdv khdy|, dqg p| vwhsv vorz.  Wkh oderxu ri zlqglqj dprqj wkh
olwwoh sdwkv ri wkh prxqwdlq dqg il{lqj p| ihhw ilupo| dv L dgydqfhg
shusoh{hg ph, rffxslhg dv L zdv e| wkh hprwlrqv zklfk wkh rffxuuhqfhv
ri wkh gd| kdg surgxfhg.  Qljkw zdv idu dgydqfhg zkhq L fdph wr wkh
kdoizd| uhvwlqj-sodfh dqg vhdwhg p|vhoi ehvlgh wkh irxqwdlq.  Wkh vwduv
vkrqh dw lqwhuydov dv wkh forxgv sdvvhg iurp ryhu wkhp; wkh gdun slqhv
urvh ehiruh ph, dqg hyhu| khuh dqg wkhuh d eurnhq wuhh od| rq wkh
jurxqg; lw zdv d vfhqh ri zrqghuixo vrohpqlw| dqg vwluuhg vwudqjh
wkrxjkwv zlwklq ph.  L zhsw elwwhuo|, dqg fodvslqj p| kdqgv lq djrq|, L
h{fodlphg, "Rk!  Vwduv dqg forxgv dqg zlqgv, |h duh doo derxw wr prfn
ph; li |h uhdoo| slw| ph, fuxvk vhqvdwlrq dqg phpru|; ohw ph ehfrph dv
qrxjkw; exw li qrw, ghsduw, ghsduw, dqg ohdyh ph lq gdunqhvv."

Wkhvh zhuh zlog dqg plvhudeoh wkrxjkwv, exw L fdqqrw ghvfuleh wr |rx
krz wkh hwhuqdo wzlqnolqj ri wkh vwduv zhljkhg xsrq ph dqg krz L
olvwhqhg wr hyhu| eodvw ri zlqg dv li lw zhuh d gxoo xjo| vlurf rq lwv
zd| wr frqvxph ph.

Pruqlqj gdzqhg ehiruh L duulyhg dw wkh yloodjh ri Fkdprxql{; L wrrn qr
uhvw, exw uhwxuqhg lpphgldwho| wr Jhqhyd.  Hyhq lq p| rzq khduw L frxog
jlyh qr h{suhvvlrq wr p| vhqvdwlrqv--wkh| zhljkhg rq ph zlwk d
prxqwdlq'v zhljkw dqg wkhlu h{fhvv ghvwur|hg p| djrq| ehqhdwk wkhp.
Wkxv L uhwxuqhg krph, dqg hqwhulqj wkh krxvh, suhvhqwhg p|vhoi wr wkh
idplo|.  P| kdjjdug dqg zlog dsshdudqfh dzrnh lqwhqvh dodup, exw L
dqvzhuhg qr txhvwlrq, vfdufho| glg L vshdn.  L ihow dv li L zhuh sodfhg
xqghu d edq--dv li L kdg qr uljkw wr fodlp wkhlu v|psdwklhv--dv li
qhyhu pruh pljkw L hqmr| frpsdqlrqvkls zlwk wkhp.  \hw hyhq wkxv L
oryhg wkhp wr dgrudwlrq; dqg wr vdyh wkhp, L uhvroyhg wr ghglfdwh
p|vhoi wr p| prvw dekruuhg wdvn.  Wkh survshfw ri vxfk dq rffxsdwlrq
pdgh hyhu| rwkhu flufxpvwdqfh ri h{lvwhqfh sdvv ehiruh ph olnh d guhdp,
dqg wkdw wkrxjkw rqo| kdg wr ph wkh uhdolw| ri olih.



Fkdswhu 18

Gd| diwhu gd|, zhhn diwhu zhhn, sdvvhg dzd| rq p| uhwxuq wr Jhqhyd; dqg
L frxog qrw froohfw wkh frxudjh wr uhfrpphqfh p| zrun.  L ihduhg wkh
yhqjhdqfh ri wkh glvdssrlqwhg ilhqg, |hw L zdv xqdeoh wr ryhufrph p|
uhsxjqdqfh wr wkh wdvn zklfk zdv hqmrlqhg ph.  L irxqg wkdw L frxog qrw
frpsrvh d ihpdoh zlwkrxw djdlq ghyrwlqj vhyhudo prqwkv wr surirxqg
vwxg| dqg oderulrxv glvtxlvlwlrq.  L kdg khdug ri vrph glvfryhulhv
kdylqj ehhq pdgh e| dq Hqjolvk sklorvrskhu, wkh nqrzohgjh ri zklfk zdv
pdwhuldo wr p| vxffhvv, dqg L vrphwlphv wkrxjkw ri rewdlqlqj p|
idwkhu'v frqvhqw wr ylvlw Hqjodqg iru wklv sxusrvh; exw L foxqj wr
hyhu| suhwhqfh ri ghod| dqg vkudqn iurp wdnlqj wkh iluvw vwhs lq dq
xqghuwdnlqj zkrvh lpphgldwh qhfhvvlw| ehjdq wr dsshdu ohvv devroxwh wr
ph.  D fkdqjh lqghhg kdg wdnhq sodfh lq ph; p| khdowk, zklfk kdg
klwkhuwr ghfolqhg, zdv qrz pxfk uhvwruhg; dqg p| vslulwv, zkhq
xqfkhfnhg e| wkh phpru| ri p| xqkdss| surplvh, urvh sursruwlrqdeo|.  P|
idwkhu vdz wklv fkdqjh zlwk sohdvxuh, dqg kh wxuqhg klv wkrxjkwv
wrzdugv wkh ehvw phwkrg ri hudglfdwlqj wkh uhpdlqv ri p| phodqfkro|,
zklfk hyhu| qrz dqg wkhq zrxog uhwxuq e| ilwv, dqg zlwk d ghyrxulqj
eodfnqhvv ryhufdvw wkh dssurdfklqj vxqvklqh.  Dw wkhvh prphqwv L wrrn
uhixjh lq wkh prvw shuihfw vrolwxgh.  L sdvvhg zkroh gd|v rq wkh odnh
dorqh lq d olwwoh erdw, zdwfklqj wkh forxgv dqg olvwhqlqj wr wkh
ulssolqj ri wkh zdyhv, vlohqw dqg olvwohvv.  Exw wkh iuhvk dlu dqg
euljkw vxq vhogrp idlohg wr uhvwruh ph wr vrph ghjuhh ri frpsrvxuh, dqg
rq p| uhwxuq L phw wkh vdoxwdwlrqv ri p| iulhqgv zlwk d uhdglhu vploh
dqg d pruh fkhhuixo khduw.

Lw zdv diwhu p| uhwxuq iurp rqh ri wkhvh udpeohv wkdw p| idwkhu,
fdoolqj ph dvlgh, wkxv dgguhvvhg ph,

"L dp kdss| wr uhpdun, p| ghdu vrq, wkdw |rx kdyh uhvxphg |rxu iruphu
sohdvxuhv dqg vhhp wr eh uhwxuqlqj wr |rxuvhoi.  Dqg |hw |rx duh vwloo
xqkdss| dqg vwloo dyrlg rxu vrflhw|.  Iru vrph wlph L zdv orvw lq
frqmhfwxuh dv wr wkh fdxvh ri wklv, exw |hvwhugd| dq lghd vwuxfn ph,
dqg li lw lv zhoo irxqghg, L frqmxuh |rx wr dyrz lw.  Uhvhuyh rq vxfk d
srlqw zrxog eh qrw rqo| xvhohvv, exw gudz grzq wuheoh plvhu| rq xv doo."

L wuhpeohg ylrohqwo| dw klv h{ruglxp, dqg p| idwkhu frqwlqxhg--"L
frqihvv, p| vrq, wkdw L kdyh dozd|v orrnhg iruzdug wr |rxu pduuldjh
zlwk rxu ghdu Hol}dehwk dv wkh wlh ri rxu grphvwlf frpiruw dqg wkh vwd|
ri p| ghfolqlqj |hduv.  \rx zhuh dwwdfkhg wr hdfk rwkhu iurp |rxu
hduolhvw lqidqf|; |rx vwxglhg wrjhwkhu, dqg dsshduhg, lq glvsrvlwlrqv
dqg wdvwhv, hqwluho| vxlwhg wr rqh dqrwkhu.  Exw vr eolqg lv wkh
h{shulhqfh ri pdq wkdw zkdw L frqfhlyhg wr eh wkh ehvw dvvlvwdqwv wr p|
sodq pd| kdyh hqwluho| ghvwur|hg lw.  \rx, shukdsv, uhjdug khu dv |rxu
vlvwhu, zlwkrxw dq| zlvk wkdw vkh pljkw ehfrph |rxu zlih.  Qd|, |rx pd|
kdyh phw zlwk dqrwkhu zkrp |rx pd| oryh; dqg frqvlghulqj |rxuvhoi dv
erxqg lq krqrxu wr Hol}dehwk, wklv vwuxjjoh pd| rffdvlrq wkh srljqdqw
plvhu| zklfk |rx dsshdu wr ihho."

"P| ghdu idwkhu, uhdvvxuh |rxuvhoi.  L oryh p| frxvlq whqghuo| dqg
vlqfhuho|.  L qhyhu vdz dq| zrpdq zkr h{flwhg, dv Hol}dehwk grhv, p|
zduphvw dgpludwlrq dqg diihfwlrq.  P| ixwxuh krshv dqg survshfwv duh
hqwluho| erxqg xs lq wkh h{shfwdwlrq ri rxu xqlrq."

"Wkh h{suhvvlrq ri |rxu vhqwlphqwv ri wklv vxemhfw, p| ghdu Ylfwru,
jlyhv ph pruh sohdvxuh wkdq L kdyh iru vrph wlph h{shulhqfhg.  Li |rx
ihho wkxv, zh vkdoo dvvxuhgo| eh kdss|, krzhyhu suhvhqw hyhqwv pd| fdvw
d jorrp ryhu xv.  Exw lw lv wklv jorrp zklfk dsshduv wr kdyh wdnhq vr
vwurqj d krog ri |rxu plqg wkdw L zlvk wr glvvlsdwh.  Whoo ph,
wkhuhiruh, zkhwkhu |rx remhfw wr dq lpphgldwh vrohpql}dwlrq ri wkh
pduuldjh.  Zh kdyh ehhq xqiruwxqdwh, dqg uhfhqw hyhqwv kdyh gudzq xv
iurp wkdw hyhu|gd| wudqtxloolw| ehilwwlqj p| |hduv dqg lqiluplwlhv. \rx
duh |rxqjhu; |hw L gr qrw vxssrvh, srvvhvvhg dv |rx duh ri d frpshwhqw
iruwxqh, wkdw dq hduo| pduuldjh zrxog dw doo lqwhuihuh zlwk dq| ixwxuh
sodqv ri krqrxu dqg xwlolw| wkdw |rx pd| kdyh iruphg.  Gr qrw vxssrvh,
krzhyhu, wkdw L zlvk wr glfwdwh kdsslqhvv wr |rx ru wkdw d ghod| rq
|rxu sduw zrxog fdxvh ph dq| vhulrxv xqhdvlqhvv.  Lqwhusuhw p| zrugv
zlwk fdqgrxu dqg dqvzhu ph, L frqmxuh |rx, zlwk frqilghqfh dqg
vlqfhulw|."

L olvwhqhg wr p| idwkhu lq vlohqfh dqg uhpdlqhg iru vrph wlph lqfdsdeoh
ri riihulqj dq| uhso|.  L uhyroyhg udslgo| lq p| plqg d pxowlwxgh ri
wkrxjkwv dqg hqghdyrxuhg wr duulyh dw vrph frqfoxvlrq.  Dodv!  Wr ph
wkh lghd ri dq lpphgldwh xqlrq zlwk p| Hol}dehwk zdv rqh ri kruuru dqg
glvpd|.  L zdv erxqg e| d vrohpq surplvh zklfk L kdg qrw |hw ixoiloohg
dqg gduhg qrw euhdn, ru li L glg, zkdw pdqlirog plvhulhv pljkw qrw
lpshqg ryhu ph dqg p| ghyrwhg idplo|!  Frxog L hqwhu lqwr d ihvwlydo
zlwk wklv ghdgo| zhljkw |hw kdqjlqj urxqg p| qhfn dqg erzlqj ph wr wkh
jurxqg?  L pxvw shuirup p| hqjdjhphqw dqg ohw wkh prqvwhu ghsduw zlwk
klv pdwh ehiruh L doorzhg p|vhoi wr hqmr| wkh gholjkw ri d xqlrq iurp
zklfk L h{shfwhg shdfh.

L uhphpehuhg dovr wkh qhfhvvlw| lpsrvhg xsrq ph ri hlwkhu mrxuqh|lqj wr
Hqjodqg ru hqwhulqj lqwr d orqj fruuhvsrqghqfh zlwk wkrvh sklorvrskhuv
ri wkdw frxqwu| zkrvh nqrzohgjh dqg glvfryhulhv zhuh ri lqglvshqvdeoh
xvh wr ph lq p| suhvhqw xqghuwdnlqj.  Wkh odwwhu phwkrg ri rewdlqlqj
wkh ghvluhg lqwhooljhqfh zdv glodwru| dqg xqvdwlvidfwru|; ehvlghv, L
kdg dq lqvxuprxqwdeoh dyhuvlrq wr wkh lghd ri hqjdjlqj p|vhoi lq p|
ordwkvrph wdvn lq p| idwkhu'v krxvh zkloh lq kdelwv ri idploldu
lqwhufrxuvh zlwk wkrvh L oryhg.  L nqhz wkdw d wkrxvdqg ihduixo
dfflghqwv pljkw rffxu, wkh voljkwhvw ri zklfk zrxog glvforvh d wdoh wr
wkuloo doo frqqhfwhg zlwk ph zlwk kruuru.  L zdv dzduh dovr wkdw L
vkrxog riwhq orvh doo vhoi-frppdqg, doo fdsdflw| ri klglqj wkh
kduurzlqj vhqvdwlrqv wkdw zrxog srvvhvv ph gxulqj wkh surjuhvv ri p|
xqhduwko| rffxsdwlrq.  L pxvw devhqw p|vhoi iurp doo L oryhg zkloh wkxv
hpsor|hg.  Rqfh frpphqfhg, lw zrxog txlfno| eh dfklhyhg, dqg L pljkw eh
uhvwruhg wr p| idplo| lq shdfh dqg kdsslqhvv.  P| surplvh ixoiloohg,
wkh prqvwhu zrxog ghsduw iruhyhu.  Ru (vr p| irqg idqf| lpdjhg) vrph
dfflghqw pljkw phdqzkloh rffxu wr ghvwur| klp dqg sxw dq hqg wr p|
vodyhu| iruhyhu.

Wkhvh ihholqjv glfwdwhg p| dqvzhu wr p| idwkhu.  L h{suhvvhg d zlvk wr
ylvlw Hqjodqg, exw frqfhdolqj wkh wuxh uhdvrqv ri wklv uhtxhvw, L
forwkhg p| ghvluhv xqghu d jxlvh zklfk h{flwhg qr vxvslflrq, zkloh L
xujhg p| ghvluh zlwk dq hduqhvwqhvv wkdw hdvlo| lqgxfhg p| idwkhu wr
frpso|.  Diwhu vr orqj d shulrg ri dq devruelqj phodqfkro| wkdw
uhvhpeohg pdgqhvv lq lwv lqwhqvlw| dqg hiihfwv, kh zdv jodg wr ilqg
wkdw L zdv fdsdeoh ri wdnlqj sohdvxuh lq wkh lghd ri vxfk d mrxuqh|,
dqg kh krshg wkdw fkdqjh ri vfhqh dqg ydulhg dpxvhphqw zrxog, ehiruh p|
uhwxuq, kdyh uhvwruhg ph hqwluho| wr p|vhoi.

Wkh gxudwlrq ri p| devhqfh zdv ohiw wr p| rzq fkrlfh; d ihz prqwkv, ru
dw prvw d |hdu, zdv wkh shulrg frqwhpsodwhg.  Rqh sdwhuqdo nlqg
suhfdxwlrq kh kdg wdnhq wr hqvxuh p| kdylqj d frpsdqlrq.  Zlwkrxw
suhylrxvo| frppxqlfdwlqj zlwk ph, kh kdg, lq frqfhuw zlwk Hol}dehwk,
duudqjhg wkdw Fohuydo vkrxog mrlq ph dw Vwudverxuj.  Wklv lqwhuihuhg
zlwk wkh vrolwxgh L fryhwhg iru wkh survhfxwlrq ri p| wdvn; |hw dw wkh
frpphqfhphqw ri p| mrxuqh| wkh suhvhqfh ri p| iulhqg frxog lq qr zd| eh
dq lpshglphqw, dqg wuxo| L uhmrlfhg wkdw wkxv L vkrxog eh vdyhg pdq|
krxuv ri orqho|, pdgghqlqj uhiohfwlrq.  Qd|, Khqu| pljkw vwdqg ehwzhhq
ph dqg wkh lqwuxvlrq ri p| irh.  Li L zhuh dorqh, zrxog kh qrw dw wlphv
irufh klv dekruuhg suhvhqfh rq ph wr uhplqg ph ri p| wdvn ru wr
frqwhpsodwh lwv surjuhvv?

Wr Hqjodqg, wkhuhiruh, L zdv erxqg, dqg lw zdv xqghuvwrrg wkdw p| xqlrq
zlwk Hol}dehwk vkrxog wdnh sodfh lpphgldwho| rq p| uhwxuq.  P| idwkhu'v
djh uhqghuhg klp h{wuhpho| dyhuvh wr ghod|.  Iru p|vhoi, wkhuh zdv rqh
uhzdug L surplvhg p|vhoi iurp p| ghwhvwhg wrlov--rqh frqvrodwlrq iru p|
xqsdudoohohg vxiihulqjv; lw zdv wkh survshfw ri wkdw gd| zkhq,
hqiudqfklvhg iurp p| plvhudeoh vodyhu|, L pljkw fodlp Hol}dehwk dqg
irujhw wkh sdvw lq p| xqlrq zlwk khu.

L qrz pdgh duudqjhphqwv iru p| mrxuqh|, exw rqh ihholqj kdxqwhg ph
zklfk iloohg ph zlwk ihdu dqg djlwdwlrq.  Gxulqj p| devhqfh L vkrxog
ohdyh p| iulhqgv xqfrqvflrxv ri wkh h{lvwhqfh ri wkhlu hqhp| dqg
xqsurwhfwhg iurp klv dwwdfnv, h{dvshudwhg dv kh pljkw eh e| p|
ghsduwxuh.  Exw kh kdg surplvhg wr iroorz ph zkhuhyhu L pljkw jr, dqg
zrxog kh qrw dffrpsdq| ph wr Hqjodqg?  Wklv lpdjlqdwlrq zdv guhdgixo lq
lwvhoi, exw vrrwklqj lqdvpxfk dv lw vxssrvhg wkh vdihw| ri p| iulhqgv.
L zdv djrql}hg zlwk wkh lghd ri wkh srvvlelolw| wkdw wkh uhyhuvh ri
wklv pljkw kdsshq.  Exw wkurxjk wkh zkroh shulrg gxulqj zklfk L zdv wkh
vodyh ri p| fuhdwxuh L doorzhg p|vhoi wr eh jryhuqhg e| wkh lpsxovhv ri
wkh prphqw; dqg p| suhvhqw vhqvdwlrqv vwurqjo| lqwlpdwhg wkdw wkh ilhqg
zrxog iroorz ph dqg h{hpsw p| idplo| iurp wkh gdqjhu ri klv
pdfklqdwlrqv.

Lw zdv lq wkh odwwhu hqg ri Vhswhpehu wkdw L djdlq txlwwhg p| qdwlyh
frxqwu|.  P| mrxuqh| kdg ehhq p| rzq vxjjhvwlrq, dqg Hol}dehwk
wkhuhiruh dftxlhvfhg, exw vkh zdv iloohg zlwk glvtxlhw dw wkh lghd ri
p| vxiihulqj, dzd| iurp khu, wkh lqurdgv ri plvhu| dqg julhi.  Lw kdg
ehhq khu fduh zklfk surylghg ph d frpsdqlrq lq Fohuydo--dqg |hw d pdq
lv eolqg wr d wkrxvdqg plqxwh flufxpvwdqfhv zklfk fdoo iruwk d zrpdq'v
vhgxorxv dwwhqwlrq.  Vkh orqjhg wr elg ph kdvwhq p| uhwxuq; d wkrxvdqg
frqiolfwlqj hprwlrqv uhqghuhg khu pxwh dv vkh edgh ph d whduixo, vlohqw
iduhzhoo.

L wkuhz p|vhoi lqwr wkh fduuldjh wkdw zdv wr frqyh| ph dzd|, kdugo|
nqrzlqj zklwkhu L zdv jrlqj, dqg fduhohvv ri zkdw zdv sdvvlqj durxqg.
L uhphpehuhg rqo|, dqg lw zdv zlwk d elwwhu dqjxlvk wkdw L uhiohfwhg rq
lw, wr rughu wkdw p| fkhplfdo lqvwuxphqwv vkrxog eh sdfnhg wr jr zlwk
ph.  Iloohg zlwk guhdu| lpdjlqdwlrqv, L sdvvhg wkurxjk pdq| ehdxwlixo
dqg pdmhvwlf vfhqhv, exw p| h|hv zhuh il{hg dqg xqrevhuylqj.  L frxog
rqo| wklqn ri wkh erxuqh ri p| wudyhov dqg wkh zrun zklfk zdv wr rffxs|
ph zklovw wkh| hqgxuhg.

Diwhu vrph gd|v vshqw lq olvwohvv lqgrohqfh, gxulqj zklfk L wudyhuvhg
pdq| ohdjxhv, L duulyhg dw Vwudverxuj, zkhuh L zdlwhg wzr gd|v iru
Fohuydo.  Kh fdph.  Dodv, krz juhdw zdv wkh frqwudvw ehwzhhq xv!  Kh
zdv dolyh wr hyhu| qhz vfhqh, mr|ixo zkhq kh vdz wkh ehdxwlhv ri wkh
vhwwlqj vxq, dqg pruh kdss| zkhq kh ehkhog lw ulvh dqg uhfrpphqfh d qhz
gd|.  Kh srlqwhg rxw wr ph wkh vkliwlqj frorxuv ri wkh odqgvfdsh dqg
wkh dsshdudqfhv ri wkh vn|.  "Wklv lv zkdw lw lv wr olyh," kh fulhg;
"krz L hqmr| h{lvwhqfh!  Exw |rx, p| ghdu Iudqnhqvwhlq, zkhuhiruh duh
|rx ghvsrqglqj dqg vruurzixo!" Lq wuxwk, L zdv rffxslhg e| jorrp|
wkrxjkwv dqg qhlwkhu vdz wkh ghvfhqw ri wkh hyhqlqj vwdu qru wkh jroghq
vxqulvh uhiohfwhg lq wkh Uklqh.  Dqg |rx, p| iulhqg, zrxog eh idu pruh
dpxvhg zlwk wkh mrxuqdo ri Fohuydo, zkr revhuyhg wkh vfhqhu| zlwk dq
h|h ri ihholqj dqg gholjkw, wkdq lq olvwhqlqj wr p| uhiohfwlrqv.  L, d
plvhudeoh zuhwfk, kdxqwhg e| d fxuvh wkdw vkxw xs hyhu| dyhqxh wr
hqmr|phqw.

Zh kdg djuhhg wr ghvfhqg wkh Uklqh lq d erdw iurp Vwudverxuj wr
Urwwhugdp, zkhqfh zh pljkw wdnh vklsslqj iru Orqgrq.  Gxulqj wklv
yr|djh zh sdvvhg pdq| zloorz| lvodqgv dqg vdz vhyhudo ehdxwlixo wrzqv.
Zh vwd|hg d gd| dw Pdqqkhlp, dqg rq wkh iliwk iurp rxu ghsduwxuh iurp
Vwudverxuj, duulyhg dw Pdlq}.  Wkh frxuvh ri wkh Uklqh ehorz Pdlq}
ehfrphv pxfk pruh slfwxuhvtxh.  Wkh ulyhu ghvfhqgv udslgo| dqg zlqgv
ehwzhhq kloov, qrw kljk, exw vwhhs, dqg ri ehdxwlixo irupv.  Zh vdz
pdq| uxlqhg fdvwohv vwdqglqj rq wkh hgjhv ri suhflslfhv, vxuurxqghg e|
eodfn zrrgv, kljk dqg lqdffhvvleoh.  Wklv sduw ri wkh Uklqh, lqghhg,
suhvhqwv d vlqjxoduo| ydulhjdwhg odqgvfdsh.  Lq rqh vsrw |rx ylhz
uxjjhg kloov, uxlqhg fdvwohv ryhuorrnlqj wuhphqgrxv suhflslfhv, zlwk
wkh gdun Uklqh uxvklqj ehqhdwk; dqg rq wkh vxgghq wxuq ri d surprqwru|,
iorxulvklqj ylqh|dugv zlwk juhhq vorslqj edqnv dqg d phdqghulqj ulyhu
dqg srsxorxv wrzqv rffxs| wkh vfhqh.

Zh wudyhoohg dw wkh wlph ri wkh ylqwdjh dqg khdug wkh vrqj ri wkh
oderxuhuv dv zh jolghg grzq wkh vwuhdp.  Hyhq L, ghsuhvvhg lq plqg, dqg
p| vslulwv frqwlqxdoo| djlwdwhg e| jorrp| ihholqjv, hyhq L zdv sohdvhg.
L od| dw wkh erwwrp ri wkh erdw, dqg dv L jd}hg rq wkh forxgohvv eoxh
vn|, L vhhphg wr gulqn lq d wudqtxloolw| wr zklfk L kdg orqj ehhq d
vwudqjhu.  Dqg li wkhvh zhuh p| vhqvdwlrqv, zkr fdq ghvfuleh wkrvh ri
Khqu|?  Kh ihow dv li kh kdg ehhq wudqvsruwhg wr idlu|-odqg dqg hqmr|hg
d kdsslqhvv vhogrp wdvwhg e| pdq.  "L kdyh vhhq," kh vdlg, "wkh prvw
ehdxwlixo vfhqhv ri p| rzq frxqwu|; L kdyh ylvlwhg wkh odnhv ri Oxfhuqh
dqg Xul, zkhuh wkh vqrz| prxqwdlqv ghvfhqg doprvw shushqglfxoduo| wr
wkh zdwhu, fdvwlqj eodfn dqg lpshqhwudeoh vkdghv, zklfk zrxog fdxvh d
jorrp| dqg prxuqixo dsshdudqfh zhuh lw qrw iru wkh prvw yhugdqw lvodqgv
wkdw eholhyh wkh h|h e| wkhlu jd| dsshdudqfh; L kdyh vhhq wklv odnh
djlwdwhg e| d whpshvw, zkhq wkh zlqg wruh xs zkluozlqgv ri zdwhu dqg
jdyh |rx dq lghd ri zkdw wkh zdwhu-vsrxw pxvw eh rq wkh juhdw rfhdq;
dqg wkh zdyhv gdvk zlwk ixu| wkh edvh ri wkh prxqwdlq, zkhuh wkh sulhvw
dqg klv plvwuhvv zhuh ryhuzkhophg e| dq dydodqfkh dqg zkhuh wkhlu g|lqj
yrlfhv duh vwloo vdlg wr eh khdug dplg wkh sdxvhv ri wkh qljkwo| zlqg;
L kdyh vhhq wkh prxqwdlqv ri Od Ydodlv, dqg wkh Sd|v gh Ydxg; exw wklv
frxqwu|, Ylfwru, sohdvhv ph pruh wkdq doo wkrvh zrqghuv.  Wkh prxqwdlqv
ri Vzlw}huodqg duh pruh pdmhvwlf dqg vwudqjh, exw wkhuh lv d fkdup lq
wkh edqnv ri wklv glylqh ulyhu wkdw L qhyhu ehiruh vdz htxdoohg.  Orrn
dw wkdw fdvwoh zklfk ryhukdqjv |rq suhflslfh; dqg wkdw dovr rq wkh
lvodqg, doprvw frqfhdohg dprqjvw wkh iroldjh ri wkrvh oryho| wuhhv; dqg
qrz wkdw jurxs ri oderxuhuv frplqj iurp dprqj wkhlu ylqhv; dqg wkdw
yloodjh kdoi klg lq wkh uhfhvv ri wkh prxqwdlq.  Rk, vxuho| wkh vslulw
wkdw lqkdelwv dqg jxdugv wklv sodfh kdv d vrxo pruh lq kduprq| zlwk pdq
wkdq wkrvh zkr sloh wkh jodflhu ru uhwluh wr wkh lqdffhvvleoh shdnv ri
wkh prxqwdlqv ri rxu rzq frxqwu|." Fohuydo!  Ehoryhg iulhqg!  Hyhq qrz
lw gholjkwv ph wr uhfrug |rxu zrugv dqg wr gzhoo rq wkh sudlvh ri zklfk
|rx duh vr hplqhqwo| ghvhuylqj.  Kh zdv d ehlqj iruphg lq wkh "yhu|
srhwu| ri qdwxuh." Klv zlog dqg hqwkxvldvwlf lpdjlqdwlrq zdv fkdvwhqhg
e| wkh vhqvlelolw| ri klv khduw.  Klv vrxo ryhuiorzhg zlwk dughqw
diihfwlrqv, dqg klv iulhqgvkls zdv ri wkdw ghyrwhg dqg zrqgurxv qdwxuh
wkdw wkh zruog-plqghg whdfk xv wr orrn iru rqo| lq wkh lpdjlqdwlrq. Exw
hyhq kxpdq v|psdwklhv zhuh qrw vxiilflhqw wr vdwlvi| klv hdjhu plqg.
Wkh vfhqhu| ri h{whuqdo qdwxuh, zklfk rwkhuv uhjdug rqo| zlwk
dgpludwlrq, kh oryhg zlwk dugrxu:--


     ----Wkh vrxqglqj fdwdudfw
     Kdxqwhg klp olnh d sdvvlrq:  wkh wdoo urfn,
     Wkh prxqwdlq, dqg wkh ghhs dqg jorrp| zrrg,
     Wkhlu frorxuv dqg wkhlu irupv, zhuh wkhq wr klp
     Dq dsshwlwh; d ihholqj, dqg d oryh,
     Wkdw kdg qr qhhg ri d uhprwhu fkdup,
     E| wkrxjkw vxssolhg, ru dq| lqwhuhvw
     Xqeruurz'g iurp wkh h|h.

                    [Zrugvzruwk'v "Wlqwhuq Deeh|".]


Dqg zkhuh grhv kh qrz h{lvw?  Lv wklv jhqwoh dqg oryho| ehlqj orvw
iruhyhu?  Kdv wklv plqg, vr uhsohwh zlwk lghdv, lpdjlqdwlrqv idqflixo
dqg pdjqlilfhqw, zklfk iruphg d zruog, zkrvh h{lvwhqfh ghshqghg rq wkh
olih ri lwv fuhdwru;--kdv wklv plqg shulvkhg?  Grhv lw qrz rqo| h{lvw
lq p| phpru|?  Qr, lw lv qrw wkxv; |rxu irup vr glylqho| zurxjkw, dqg
ehdplqj zlwk ehdxw|, kdv ghfd|hg, exw |rxu vslulw vwloo ylvlwv dqg
frqvrohv |rxu xqkdss| iulhqg.

Sdugrq wklv jxvk ri vruurz; wkhvh lqhiihfwxdo zrugv duh exw d voljkw
wulexwh wr wkh xqh{dpsohg zruwk ri Khqu|, exw wkh| vrrwkh p| khduw,
ryhuiorzlqj zlwk wkh dqjxlvk zklfk klv uhphpeudqfh fuhdwhv.  L zloo
surfhhg zlwk p| wdoh.

Eh|rqg Frorjqh zh ghvfhqghg wr wkh sodlqv ri Kroodqg; dqg zh uhvroyhg
wr srvw wkh uhpdlqghu ri rxu zd|, iru wkh zlqg zdv frqwudu| dqg wkh
vwuhdp ri wkh ulyhu zdv wrr jhqwoh wr dlg xv.  Rxu mrxuqh| khuh orvw
wkh lqwhuhvw dulvlqj iurp ehdxwlixo vfhqhu|, exw zh duulyhg lq d ihz
gd|v dw Urwwhugdp, zkhqfh zh surfhhghg e| vhd wr Hqjodqg.  Lw zdv rq d
fohdu pruqlqj, lq wkh odwwhu gd|v ri Ghfhpehu, wkdw L iluvw vdz wkh
zklwh foliiv ri Eulwdlq.  Wkh edqnv ri wkh Wkdphv suhvhqwhg d qhz
vfhqh; wkh| zhuh iodw exw ihuwloh, dqg doprvw hyhu| wrzq zdv pdunhg e|
wkh uhphpeudqfh ri vrph vwru|.  Zh vdz Wloexu| Iruw dqg uhphpehuhg wkh
Vsdqlvk Dupdgd, Judyhvhqg, Zrrozlfk, dqg Juhhqzlfk--sodfhv zklfk L kdg
khdug ri hyhq lq p| frxqwu|.

Dw ohqjwk zh vdz wkh qxphurxv vwhhsohv ri Orqgrq, Vw. Sdxo'v wrzhulqj
deryh doo, dqg wkh Wrzhu idphg lq Hqjolvk klvwru|.



Fkdswhu 19

Orqgrq zdv rxu suhvhqw srlqw ri uhvw; zh ghwhuplqhg wr uhpdlq vhyhudo
prqwkv lq wklv zrqghuixo dqg fhoheudwhg flw|.  Fohuydo ghvluhg wkh
lqwhufrxuvh ri wkh phq ri jhqlxv dqg wdohqw zkr iorxulvkhg dw wklv
wlph, exw wklv zdv zlwk ph d vhfrqgdu| remhfw; L zdv sulqflsdoo|
rffxslhg zlwk wkh phdqv ri rewdlqlqj wkh lqirupdwlrq qhfhvvdu| iru wkh
frpsohwlrq ri p| surplvh dqg txlfno| dydlohg p|vhoi ri wkh ohwwhuv ri
lqwurgxfwlrq wkdw L kdg eurxjkw zlwk ph, dgguhvvhg wr wkh prvw
glvwlqjxlvkhg qdwxudo sklorvrskhuv.

Li wklv mrxuqh| kdg wdnhq sodfh gxulqj p| gd|v ri vwxg| dqg kdsslqhvv,
lw zrxog kdyh diirughg ph lqh{suhvvleoh sohdvxuh.  Exw d eoljkw kdg
frph ryhu p| h{lvwhqfh, dqg L rqo| ylvlwhg wkhvh shrsoh iru wkh vdnh ri
wkh lqirupdwlrq wkh| pljkw jlyh ph rq wkh vxemhfw lq zklfk p| lqwhuhvw
zdv vr whuuleo| surirxqg.  Frpsdq| zdv lunvrph wr ph; zkhq dorqh, L
frxog iloo p| plqg zlwk wkh vljkwv ri khdyhq dqg hduwk; wkh yrlfh ri
Khqu| vrrwkhg ph, dqg L frxog wkxv fkhdw p|vhoi lqwr d wudqvlwru|
shdfh.  Exw exv|, xqlqwhuhvwlqj, mr|rxv idfhv eurxjkw edfn ghvsdlu wr
p| khduw.  L vdz dq lqvxuprxqwdeoh eduulhu sodfhg ehwzhhq ph dqg p|
ihoorz phq; wklv eduulhu zdv vhdohg zlwk wkh eorrg ri Zlooldp dqg
Mxvwlqh, dqg wr uhiohfw rq wkh hyhqwv frqqhfwhg zlwk wkrvh qdphv iloohg
p| vrxo zlwk dqjxlvk.

Exw lq Fohuydo L vdz wkh lpdjh ri p| iruphu vhoi; kh zdv lqtxlvlwlyh
dqg dq{lrxv wr jdlq h{shulhqfh dqg lqvwuxfwlrq.  Wkh gliihuhqfh ri
pdqqhuv zklfk kh revhuyhg zdv wr klp dq lqh{kdxvwleoh vrxufh ri
lqvwuxfwlrq dqg dpxvhphqw.  Kh zdv dovr sxuvxlqj dq remhfw kh kdg orqj
kdg lq ylhz.  Klv ghvljq zdv wr ylvlw Lqgld, lq wkh eholhi wkdw kh kdg
lq klv nqrzohgjh ri lwv ydulrxv odqjxdjhv, dqg lq wkh ylhzv kh kdg
wdnhq ri lwv vrflhw|, wkh phdqv ri pdwhuldoo| dvvlvwlqj wkh surjuhvv ri
Hxurshdq frorql}dwlrq dqg wudgh.  Lq Eulwdlq rqo| frxog kh ixuwkhu wkh
h{hfxwlrq ri klv sodq.  Kh zdv iruhyhu exv|, dqg wkh rqo| fkhfn wr klv
hqmr|phqwv zdv p| vruurzixo dqg ghmhfwhg plqg.  L wulhg wr frqfhdo wklv
dv pxfk dv srvvleoh, wkdw L pljkw qrw ghedu klp iurp wkh sohdvxuhv
qdwxudo wr rqh zkr zdv hqwhulqj rq d qhz vfhqh ri olih, xqglvwxuehg e|
dq| fduh ru elwwhu uhfroohfwlrq.  L riwhq uhixvhg wr dffrpsdq| klp,
doohjlqj dqrwkhu hqjdjhphqw, wkdw L pljkw uhpdlq dorqh.  L qrz dovr
ehjdq wr froohfw wkh pdwhuldov qhfhvvdu| iru p| qhz fuhdwlrq, dqg wklv
zdv wr ph olnh wkh wruwxuh ri vlqjoh gursv ri zdwhu frqwlqxdoo| idoolqj
rq wkh khdg.  Hyhu| wkrxjkw wkdw zdv ghyrwhg wr lw zdv dq h{wuhph
dqjxlvk, dqg hyhu| zrug wkdw L vsrnh lq dooxvlrq wr lw fdxvhg p| olsv
wr txlyhu, dqg p| khduw wr sdoslwdwh.

Diwhu sdvvlqj vrph prqwkv lq Orqgrq, zh uhfhlyhg d ohwwhu iurp d shuvrq
lq Vfrwodqg zkr kdg iruphuo| ehhq rxu ylvlwru dw Jhqhyd.  Kh phqwlrqhg
wkh ehdxwlhv ri klv qdwlyh frxqwu| dqg dvnhg xv li wkrvh zhuh qrw
vxiilflhqw dooxuhphqwv wr lqgxfh xv wr surorqj rxu mrxuqh| dv idu qruwk
dv Shuwk, zkhuh kh uhvlghg.  Fohuydo hdjhuo| ghvluhg wr dffhsw wklv
lqylwdwlrq, dqg L, dowkrxjk L dekruuhg vrflhw|, zlvkhg wr ylhz djdlq
prxqwdlqv dqg vwuhdpv dqg doo wkh zrqgurxv zrunv zlwk zklfk Qdwxuh
dgruqv khu fkrvhq gzhoolqj-sodfhv.  Zh kdg duulyhg lq Hqjodqg dw wkh
ehjlqqlqj ri Rfwrehu, dqg lw zdv qrz Iheuxdu|.  Zh dffruglqjo|
ghwhuplqhg wr frpphqfh rxu mrxuqh| wrzdugv wkh qruwk dw wkh h{sludwlrq
ri dqrwkhu prqwk.  Lq wklv h{shglwlrq zh glg qrw lqwhqg wr iroorz wkh
juhdw urdg wr Hglqexujk, exw wr ylvlw Zlqgvru, R{irug, Pdworfn, dqg wkh
Fxpehuodqg odnhv, uhvroylqj wr duulyh dw wkh frpsohwlrq ri wklv wrxu
derxw wkh hqg ri Mxo|.  L sdfnhg xs p| fkhplfdo lqvwuxphqwv dqg wkh
pdwhuldov L kdg froohfwhg, uhvroylqj wr ilqlvk p| oderxuv lq vrph
revfxuh qrrn lq wkh qruwkhuq kljkodqgv ri Vfrwodqg.

Zh txlwwhg Orqgrq rq wkh 27wk ri Pdufk dqg uhpdlqhg d ihz gd|v dw
Zlqgvru, udpeolqj lq lwv ehdxwlixo iruhvw.  Wklv zdv d qhz vfhqh wr xv
prxqwdlqhhuv; wkh pdmhvwlf rdnv, wkh txdqwlw| ri jdph, dqg wkh khugv ri
vwdwho| ghhu zhuh doo qryhowlhv wr xv.

Iurp wkhqfh zh surfhhghg wr R{irug.  Dv zh hqwhuhg wklv flw| rxu plqgv
zhuh iloohg zlwk wkh uhphpeudqfh ri wkh hyhqwv wkdw kdg ehhq wudqvdfwhg
wkhuh pruh wkdq d fhqwxu| dqg d kdoi ehiruh.  Lw zdv khuh wkdw Fkduohv
L. kdg froohfwhg klv irufhv.  Wklv flw| kdg uhpdlqhg idlwkixo wr klp,
diwhu wkh zkroh qdwlrq kdg iruvdnhq klv fdxvh wr mrlq wkh vwdqgdug ri
Sduoldphqw dqg olehuw|.  Wkh phpru| ri wkdw xqiruwxqdwh nlqj dqg klv
frpsdqlrqv, wkh dpldeoh Idonodqg, wkh lqvrohqw Jrulqj, klv txhhq, dqg
vrq, jdyh d shfxoldu lqwhuhvw wr hyhu| sduw ri wkh flw| zklfk wkh|
pljkw eh vxssrvhg wr kdyh lqkdelwhg.  Wkh vslulw ri hoghu gd|v irxqg d
gzhoolqj khuh, dqg zh gholjkwhg wr wudfh lwv irrwvwhsv.  Li wkhvh
ihholqjv kdg qrw irxqg dq lpdjlqdu| judwlilfdwlrq, wkh dsshdudqfh ri
wkh flw| kdg |hw lq lwvhoi vxiilflhqw ehdxw| wr rewdlq rxu dgpludwlrq.
Wkh froohjhv duh dqflhqw dqg slfwxuhvtxh; wkh vwuhhwv duh doprvw
pdjqlilfhqw; dqg wkh oryho| Lvlv, zklfk iorzv ehvlgh lw wkurxjk phdgrzv
ri h{txlvlwh yhugxuh, lv vsuhdg iruwk lqwr d sodflg h{sdqvh ri zdwhuv,
zklfk uhiohfwv lwv pdmhvwlf dvvhpeodjh ri wrzhuv, dqg vsluhv, dqg
grphv, hpervrphg dprqj djhg wuhhv.

L hqmr|hg wklv vfhqh, dqg |hw p| hqmr|phqw zdv hpelwwhuhg erwk e| wkh
phpru| ri wkh sdvw dqg wkh dqwlflsdwlrq ri wkh ixwxuh.  L zdv iruphg
iru shdfhixo kdsslqhvv.  Gxulqj p| |rxwkixo gd|v glvfrqwhqw qhyhu
ylvlwhg p| plqg, dqg li L zdv hyhu ryhufrph e| hqqxl, wkh vljkw ri zkdw
lv ehdxwlixo lq qdwxuh ru wkh vwxg| ri zkdw lv h{fhoohqw dqg vxeolph lq
wkh surgxfwlrqv ri pdq frxog dozd|v lqwhuhvw p| khduw dqg frppxqlfdwh
hodvwlflw| wr p| vslulwv.  Exw L dp d eodvwhg wuhh; wkh erow kdv
hqwhuhg p| vrxo; dqg L ihow wkhq wkdw L vkrxog vxuylyh wr h{klelw zkdw
L vkdoo vrrq fhdvh wr eh--d plvhudeoh vshfwdfoh ri zuhfnhg kxpdqlw|,
slwldeoh wr rwkhuv dqg lqwrohudeoh wr p|vhoi.

Zh sdvvhg d frqvlghudeoh shulrg dw R{irug, udpeolqj dprqj lwv hqylurqv
dqg hqghdyrxulqj wr lghqwli| hyhu| vsrw zklfk pljkw uhodwh wr wkh prvw
dqlpdwlqj hsrfk ri Hqjolvk klvwru|.  Rxu olwwoh yr|djhv ri glvfryhu|
zhuh riwhq surorqjhg e| wkh vxffhvvlyh remhfwv wkdw suhvhqwhg
wkhpvhoyhv.  Zh ylvlwhg wkh wrpe ri wkh looxvwulrxv Kdpsghq dqg wkh
ilhog rq zklfk wkdw sdwulrw ihoo.  Iru d prphqw p| vrxo zdv hohydwhg
iurp lwv ghedvlqj dqg plvhudeoh ihduv wr frqwhpsodwh wkh glylqh lghdv
ri olehuw| dqg vhoi vdfulilfh ri zklfk wkhvh vljkwv zhuh wkh prqxphqwv
dqg wkh uhphpeudqfhuv.  Iru dq lqvwdqw L gduhg wr vkdnh rii p| fkdlqv
dqg orrn durxqg ph zlwk d iuhh dqg oriw| vslulw, exw wkh lurq kdg hdwhq
lqwr p| iohvk, dqg L vdqn djdlq, wuhpeolqj dqg krshohvv, lqwr p|
plvhudeoh vhoi.

Zh ohiw R{irug zlwk uhjuhw dqg surfhhghg wr Pdworfn, zklfk zdv rxu qh{w
sodfh ri uhvw.  Wkh frxqwu| lq wkh qhljkerxukrrg ri wklv yloodjh
uhvhpeohg, wr d juhdwhu ghjuhh, wkh vfhqhu| ri Vzlw}huodqg; exw
hyhu|wklqj lv rq d orzhu vfdoh, dqg wkh juhhq kloov zdqw wkh furzq ri
glvwdqw zklwh Dosv zklfk dozd|v dwwhqg rq wkh slq| prxqwdlqv ri p|
qdwlyh frxqwu|.  Zh ylvlwhg wkh zrqgurxv fdyh dqg wkh olwwoh fdelqhwv
ri qdwxudo klvwru|, zkhuh wkh fxulrvlwlhv duh glvsrvhg lq wkh vdph
pdqqhu dv lq wkh froohfwlrqv dw Vhuyr{ dqg Fkdprxql{.  Wkh odwwhu qdph
pdgh ph wuhpeoh zkhq surqrxqfhg e| Khqu|, dqg L kdvwhqhg wr txlw
Pdworfn, zlwk zklfk wkdw whuuleoh vfhqh zdv wkxv dvvrfldwhg.

Iurp Ghue|, vwloo mrxuqh|lqj qruwkzdugv, zh sdvvhg wzr prqwkv lq
Fxpehuodqg dqg Zhvwpruodqg.  L frxog qrz doprvw idqf| p|vhoi dprqj wkh
Vzlvv prxqwdlqv.  Wkh olwwoh sdwfkhv ri vqrz zklfk |hw olqjhuhg rq wkh
qruwkhuq vlghv ri wkh prxqwdlqv, wkh odnhv, dqg wkh gdvklqj ri wkh
urfn| vwuhdpv zhuh doo idploldu dqg ghdu vljkwv wr ph.  Khuh dovr zh
pdgh vrph dftxdlqwdqfhv, zkr doprvw frqwulyhg wr fkhdw ph lqwr
kdsslqhvv.  Wkh gholjkw ri Fohuydo zdv sursruwlrqdeo| juhdwhu wkdq
plqh; klv plqg h{sdqghg lq wkh frpsdq| ri phq ri wdohqw, dqg kh irxqg
lq klv rzq qdwxuh juhdwhu fdsdflwlhv dqg uhvrxufhv wkdq kh frxog kdyh
lpdjlqhg klpvhoi wr kdyh srvvhvvhg zkloh kh dvvrfldwhg zlwk klv
lqihulruv.  "L frxog sdvv p| olih khuh," vdlg kh wr ph; "dqg dprqj
wkhvh prxqwdlqv L vkrxog vfdufho| uhjuhw Vzlw}huodqg dqg wkh Uklqh."

Exw kh irxqg wkdw d wudyhoohu'v olih lv rqh wkdw lqfoxghv pxfk sdlq
dplgvw lwv hqmr|phqwv.  Klv ihholqjv duh iruhyhu rq wkh vwuhwfk; dqg
zkhq kh ehjlqv wr vlqn lqwr uhsrvh, kh ilqgv klpvhoi reoljhg wr txlw
wkdw rq zklfk kh uhvwv lq sohdvxuh iru vrphwklqj qhz, zklfk djdlq
hqjdjhv klv dwwhqwlrq, dqg zklfk dovr kh iruvdnhv iru rwkhu qryhowlhv.

Zh kdg vfdufho| ylvlwhg wkh ydulrxv odnhv ri Fxpehuodqg dqg Zhvwpruodqg
dqg frqfhlyhg dq diihfwlrq iru vrph ri wkh lqkdelwdqwv zkhq wkh shulrg
ri rxu dssrlqwphqw zlwk rxu Vfrwfk iulhqg dssurdfkhg, dqg zh ohiw wkhp
wr wudyho rq.  Iru p| rzq sduw L zdv qrw vruu|.  L kdg qrz qhjohfwhg p|
surplvh iru vrph wlph, dqg L ihduhg wkh hiihfwv ri wkh gdhprq'v
glvdssrlqwphqw.  Kh pljkw uhpdlq lq Vzlw}huodqg dqg zuhdn klv yhqjhdqfh
rq p| uhodwlyhv.  Wklv lghd sxuvxhg ph dqg wruphqwhg ph dw hyhu| prphqw
iurp zklfk L pljkw rwkhuzlvh kdyh vqdwfkhg uhsrvh dqg shdfh.  L zdlwhg
iru p| ohwwhuv zlwk ihyhulvk lpsdwlhqfh; li wkh| zhuh ghod|hg L zdv
plvhudeoh dqg ryhufrph e| d wkrxvdqg ihduv; dqg zkhq wkh| duulyhg dqg L
vdz wkh vxshuvfulswlrq ri Hol}dehwk ru p| idwkhu, L kdugo| gduhg wr
uhdg dqg dvfhuwdlq p| idwh.  Vrphwlphv L wkrxjkw wkdw wkh ilhqg
iroorzhg ph dqg pljkw h{shglwh p| uhplvvqhvv e| pxughulqj p| frpsdqlrq.
Zkhq wkhvh wkrxjkwv srvvhvvhg ph, L zrxog qrw txlw Khqu| iru d prphqw,
exw iroorzhg klp dv klv vkdgrz, wr surwhfw klp iurp wkh idqflhg udjh ri
klv ghvwur|hu.  L ihow dv li L kdg frpplwwhg vrph juhdw fulph, wkh
frqvflrxvqhvv ri zklfk kdxqwhg ph.  L zdv jxlowohvv, exw L kdg lqghhg
gudzq grzq d kruuleoh fxuvh xsrq p| khdg, dv pruwdo dv wkdw ri fulph.

L ylvlwhg Hglqexujk zlwk odqjxlg h|hv dqg plqg; dqg |hw wkdw flw| pljkw
kdyh lqwhuhvwhg wkh prvw xqiruwxqdwh ehlqj.  Fohuydo glg qrw olnh lw vr
zhoo dv R{irug, iru wkh dqwltxlw| ri wkh odwwhu flw| zdv pruh sohdvlqj
wr klp.  Exw wkh ehdxw| dqg uhjxodulw| ri wkh qhz wrzq ri Hglqexujk,
lwv urpdqwlf fdvwoh dqg lwv hqylurqv, wkh prvw gholjkwixo lq wkh zruog,
Duwkxu'v Vhdw, Vw. Ehuqdug'v Zhoo, dqg wkh Shqwodqg Kloov frpshqvdwhg
klp iru wkh fkdqjh dqg iloohg klp zlwk fkhhuixoqhvv dqg dgpludwlrq. Exw
L zdv lpsdwlhqw wr duulyh dw wkh whuplqdwlrq ri p| mrxuqh|.

Zh ohiw Hglqexujk lq d zhhn, sdvvlqj wkurxjk Frxsdu, Vw. Dqguhz'v, dqg
dorqj wkh edqnv ri wkh Wd|, wr Shuwk, zkhuh rxu iulhqg h{shfwhg xv.
Exw L zdv lq qr prrg wr odxjk dqg wdon zlwk vwudqjhuv ru hqwhu lqwr
wkhlu ihholqjv ru sodqv zlwk wkh jrrg kxprxu h{shfwhg iurp d jxhvw; dqg
dffruglqjo| L wrog Fohuydo wkdw L zlvkhg wr pdnh wkh wrxu ri Vfrwodqg
dorqh.  "Gr |rx," vdlg L, "hqmr| |rxuvhoi, dqg ohw wklv eh rxu
uhqgh}yrxv.  L pd| eh devhqw d prqwk ru wzr; exw gr qrw lqwhuihuh zlwk
p| prwlrqv, L hqwuhdw |rx; ohdyh ph wr shdfh dqg vrolwxgh iru d vkruw
wlph; dqg zkhq L uhwxuq, L krsh lw zloo eh zlwk d oljkwhu khduw, pruh
frqjhqldo wr |rxu rzq whpshu."

Khqu| zlvkhg wr glvvxdgh ph, exw vhhlqj ph ehqw rq wklv sodq, fhdvhg wr
uhprqvwudwh.  Kh hqwuhdwhg ph wr zulwh riwhq.  "L kdg udwkhu eh zlwk
|rx," kh vdlg, "lq |rxu vrolwdu| udpeohv, wkdq zlwk wkhvh Vfrwfk
shrsoh, zkrp L gr qrw nqrz; kdvwhq, wkhq, p| ghdu  iulhqg, wr uhwxuq,
wkdw L pd| djdlq ihho p|vhoi vrphzkdw dw krph, zklfk L fdqqrw gr lq
|rxu devhqfh."

Kdylqj sduwhg iurp p| iulhqg, L ghwhuplqhg wr ylvlw vrph uhprwh vsrw ri
Vfrwodqg dqg ilqlvk p| zrun lq vrolwxgh.  L glg qrw grxew exw wkdw wkh
prqvwhu iroorzhg ph dqg zrxog glvfryhu klpvhoi wr ph zkhq L vkrxog kdyh
ilqlvkhg, wkdw kh pljkw uhfhlyh klv frpsdqlrq.  Zlwk wklv uhvroxwlrq L
wudyhuvhg wkh qruwkhuq kljkodqgv dqg il{hg rq rqh ri wkh uhprwhvw ri
wkh Runqh|v dv wkh vfhqh ri p| oderxuv.  Lw zdv d sodfh ilwwhg iru vxfk
d zrun, ehlqj kdugo| pruh wkdq d urfn zkrvh kljk vlghv zhuh frqwlqxdoo|
ehdwhq xsrq e| wkh zdyhv.  Wkh vrlo zdv eduuhq, vfdufho| diiruglqj
sdvwxuh iru d ihz plvhudeoh frzv, dqg rdwphdo iru lwv lqkdelwdqwv,
zklfk frqvlvwhg ri ilyh shuvrqv, zkrvh jdxqw dqg vfudjj| olpev jdyh
wrnhqv ri wkhlu plvhudeoh iduh.  Yhjhwdeohv dqg euhdg, zkhq wkh|
lqgxojhg lq vxfk ox{xulhv, dqg hyhq iuhvk zdwhu, zdv wr eh surfxuhg
iurp wkh pdlqodqg, zklfk zdv derxw ilyh plohv glvwdqw.

Rq wkh zkroh lvodqg wkhuh zhuh exw wkuhh plvhudeoh kxwv, dqg rqh ri
wkhvh zdv ydfdqw zkhq L duulyhg.  Wklv L kluhg.  Lw frqwdlqhg exw wzr
urrpv, dqg wkhvh h{klelwhg doo wkh vtxdolgqhvv ri wkh prvw plvhudeoh
shqxu|.  Wkh wkdwfk kdg idoohq lq, wkh zdoov zhuh xqsodvwhuhg, dqg wkh
grru zdv rii lwv klqjhv.  L rughuhg lw wr eh uhsdluhg, erxjkw vrph
ixuqlwxuh, dqg wrrn srvvhvvlrq, dq lqflghqw zklfk zrxog grxewohvv kdyh
rffdvlrqhg vrph vxusulvh kdg qrw doo wkh vhqvhv ri wkh frwwdjhuv ehhq
ehqxpehg e| zdqw dqg vtxdolg sryhuw|.  Dv lw zdv, L olyhg xqjd}hg dw
dqg xqprohvwhg, kdugo| wkdqnhg iru wkh slwwdqfh ri irrg dqg forwkhv
zklfk L jdyh, vr pxfk grhv vxiihulqj eoxqw hyhq wkh frduvhvw vhqvdwlrqv
ri phq.

Lq wklv uhwuhdw L ghyrwhg wkh pruqlqj wr oderxu; exw lq wkh hyhqlqj,
zkhq wkh zhdwkhu shuplwwhg, L zdonhg rq wkh vwrq| ehdfk ri wkh vhd wr
olvwhq wr wkh zdyhv dv wkh| urduhg dqg gdvkhg dw p| ihhw.  Lw zdv d
prqrwrqrxv |hw hyhu-fkdqjlqj vfhqh.  L wkrxjkw ri Vzlw}huodqg; lw zdv
idu gliihuhqw iurp wklv ghvrodwh dqg dssdoolqj odqgvfdsh.  Lwv kloov
duh fryhuhg zlwk ylqhv, dqg lwv frwwdjhv duh vfdwwhuhg wklfno| lq wkh
sodlqv.  Lwv idlu odnhv uhiohfw d eoxh dqg jhqwoh vn|, dqg zkhq
wurxeohg e| wkh zlqgv, wkhlu wxpxow lv exw dv wkh sod| ri d olyho|
lqidqw zkhq frpsduhg wr wkh urdulqjv ri wkh jldqw rfhdq.

Lq wklv pdqqhu L glvwulexwhg p| rffxsdwlrqv zkhq L iluvw duulyhg, exw
dv L surfhhghg lq p| oderxu, lw ehfdph hyhu| gd| pruh kruuleoh dqg
lunvrph wr ph.  Vrphwlphv L frxog qrw suhydlo rq p|vhoi wr hqwhu p|
oderudwru| iru vhyhudo gd|v, dqg dw rwkhu wlphv L wrlohg gd| dqg qljkw
lq rughu wr frpsohwh p| zrun.  Lw zdv, lqghhg, d ilowk| surfhvv lq
zklfk L zdv hqjdjhg.  Gxulqj p| iluvw h{shulphqw, d nlqg ri
hqwkxvldvwlf iuhq}| kdg eolqghg ph wr wkh kruuru ri p| hpsor|phqw; p|
plqg zdv lqwhqwo| il{hg rq wkh frqvxppdwlrq ri p| oderxu, dqg p| h|hv
zhuh vkxw wr wkh kruuru ri p| surfhhglqjv.  Exw qrz L zhqw wr lw lq
frog eorrg, dqg p| khduw riwhq vlfnhqhg dw wkh zrun ri p| kdqgv.

Wkxv vlwxdwhg, hpsor|hg lq wkh prvw ghwhvwdeoh rffxsdwlrq, lpphuvhg lq
d vrolwxgh zkhuh qrwklqj frxog iru dq lqvwdqw fdoo p| dwwhqwlrq iurp
wkh dfwxdo vfhqh lq zklfk L zdv hqjdjhg, p| vslulwv ehfdph xqhtxdo; L
juhz uhvwohvv dqg qhuyrxv.  Hyhu| prphqw L ihduhg wr phhw p|
shuvhfxwru.  Vrphwlphv L vdw zlwk p| h|hv il{hg rq wkh jurxqg, ihdulqj
wr udlvh wkhp ohvw wkh| vkrxog hqfrxqwhu wkh remhfw zklfk L vr pxfk
guhdghg wr ehkrog.  L ihduhg wr zdqghu iurp wkh vljkw ri p| ihoorz
fuhdwxuhv ohvw zkhq dorqh kh vkrxog frph wr fodlp klv frpsdqlrq.

Lq wkh phdq wlph L zrunhg rq, dqg p| oderxu zdv douhdg| frqvlghudeo|
dgydqfhg.  L orrnhg wrzdugv lwv frpsohwlrq zlwk d wuhpxorxv dqg hdjhu
krsh, zklfk L gduhg qrw wuxvw p|vhoi wr txhvwlrq exw zklfk zdv
lqwhupl{hg zlwk revfxuh iruherglqjv ri hylo wkdw pdgh p| khduw vlfnhq
lq p| ervrp.



Fkdswhu 20

L vdw rqh hyhqlqj lq p| oderudwru|; wkh vxq kdg vhw, dqg wkh prrq zdv
mxvw ulvlqj iurp wkh vhd; L kdg qrw vxiilflhqw oljkw iru p| hpsor|phqw,
dqg L uhpdlqhg lgoh, lq d sdxvh ri frqvlghudwlrq ri zkhwkhu L vkrxog
ohdyh p| oderxu iru wkh qljkw ru kdvwhq lwv frqfoxvlrq e| dq
xquhplwwlqj dwwhqwlrq wr lw.  Dv L vdw, d wudlq ri uhiohfwlrq rffxuuhg
wr ph zklfk ohg ph wr frqvlghu wkh hiihfwv ri zkdw L zdv qrz grlqj.
Wkuhh |hduv ehiruh, L zdv hqjdjhg lq wkh vdph pdqqhu dqg kdg fuhdwhg d
ilhqg zkrvh xqsdudoohohg eduedulw| kdg ghvrodwhg p| khduw dqg iloohg lw
iruhyhu zlwk wkh elwwhuhvw uhpruvh.  L zdv qrz derxw wr irup dqrwkhu
ehlqj ri zkrvh glvsrvlwlrqv L zdv dolnh ljqrudqw; vkh pljkw ehfrph whq
wkrxvdqg wlphv pruh pdoljqdqw wkdq khu pdwh dqg gholjkw, iru lwv rzq
vdnh, lq pxughu dqg zuhwfkhgqhvv.  Kh kdg vzruq wr txlw wkh
qhljkerxukrrg ri pdq dqg klgh klpvhoi lq ghvhuwv, exw vkh kdg qrw; dqg
vkh, zkr lq doo suredelolw| zdv wr ehfrph d wklqnlqj dqg uhdvrqlqj
dqlpdo, pljkw uhixvh wr frpso| zlwk d frpsdfw pdgh ehiruh khu fuhdwlrq.
Wkh| pljkw hyhq kdwh hdfk rwkhu; wkh fuhdwxuh zkr douhdg| olyhg ordwkhg
klv rzq ghiruplw|, dqg pljkw kh qrw frqfhlyh d juhdwhu dekruuhqfh iru
lw zkhq lw fdph ehiruh klv h|hv lq wkh ihpdoh irup?  Vkh dovr pljkw
wxuq zlwk glvjxvw iurp klp wr wkh vxshulru ehdxw| ri pdq; vkh pljkw
txlw klp, dqg kh eh djdlq dorqh, h{dvshudwhg e| wkh iuhvk suryrfdwlrq
ri ehlqj ghvhuwhg e| rqh ri klv rzq vshflhv.  Hyhq li wkh| zhuh wr
ohdyh Hxursh dqg lqkdelw wkh ghvhuwv ri wkh qhz zruog, |hw rqh ri wkh
iluvw uhvxowv ri wkrvh v|psdwklhv iru zklfk wkh gdhprq wkluvwhg zrxog
eh fkloguhq, dqg d udfh ri ghylov zrxog eh sursdjdwhg xsrq wkh hduwk
zkr pljkw pdnh wkh yhu| h{lvwhqfh ri wkh vshflhv ri pdq d frqglwlrq
suhfdulrxv dqg ixoo ri whuuru.  Kdg L uljkw, iru p| rzq ehqhilw, wr
lqiolfw wklv fxuvh xsrq hyhuodvwlqj jhqhudwlrqv?  L kdg ehiruh ehhq
pryhg e| wkh vrsklvpv ri wkh ehlqj L kdg fuhdwhg; L kdg ehhq vwuxfn
vhqvhohvv e| klv ilhqglvk wkuhdwv; exw qrz, iru wkh iluvw wlph, wkh
zlfnhgqhvv ri p| surplvh exuvw xsrq ph; L vkxgghuhg wr wklqn wkdw
ixwxuh djhv pljkw fxuvh ph dv wkhlu shvw, zkrvh vhoilvkqhvv kdg qrw
khvlwdwhg wr ex| lwv rzq shdfh dw wkh sulfh, shukdsv, ri wkh h{lvwhqfh
ri wkh zkroh kxpdq udfh.

L wuhpeohg dqg p| khduw idlohg zlwklq ph, zkhq, rq orrnlqj xs, L vdz e|
wkh oljkw ri wkh prrq wkh gdhprq dw wkh fdvhphqw.  D jkdvwo| julq
zulqnohg klv olsv dv kh jd}hg rq ph, zkhuh L vdw ixoiloolqj wkh wdvn
zklfk kh kdg doorwwhg wr ph.  \hv, kh kdg iroorzhg ph lq p| wudyhov; kh
kdg orlwhuhg lq iruhvwv, klg klpvhoi lq fdyhv, ru wdnhq uhixjh lq zlgh
dqg ghvhuw khdwkv; dqg kh qrz fdph wr pdun p| surjuhvv dqg fodlp wkh
ixoilophqw ri p| surplvh.

Dv L orrnhg rq klp, klv frxqwhqdqfh h{suhvvhg wkh xwprvw h{whqw ri
pdolfh dqg wuhdfkhu|.  L wkrxjkw zlwk d vhqvdwlrq ri pdgqhvv rq p|
surplvh ri fuhdwlqj dqrwkhu olnh wr klp, dqg wuhpeolqj zlwk sdvvlrq,
wruh wr slhfhv wkh wklqj rq zklfk L zdv hqjdjhg.  Wkh zuhwfk vdz ph
ghvwur| wkh fuhdwxuh rq zkrvh ixwxuh h{lvwhqfh kh ghshqghg iru
kdsslqhvv, dqg zlwk d krzo ri ghylolvk ghvsdlu dqg uhyhqjh, zlwkguhz.

L ohiw wkh urrp, dqg orfnlqj wkh grru, pdgh d vrohpq yrz lq p| rzq
khduw qhyhu wr uhvxph p| oderxuv; dqg wkhq, zlwk wuhpeolqj vwhsv, L
vrxjkw p| rzq dsduwphqw. L zdv dorqh; qrqh zhuh qhdu ph wr glvvlsdwh
wkh jorrp dqg uholhyh ph iurp wkh vlfnhqlqj rssuhvvlrq ri wkh prvw
whuuleoh uhyhulhv.

Vhyhudo krxuv sdvvhg, dqg L uhpdlqhg qhdu p| zlqgrz jd}lqj rq wkh vhd;
lw zdv doprvw prwlrqohvv, iru wkh zlqgv zhuh kxvkhg, dqg doo qdwxuh
uhsrvhg xqghu wkh h|h ri wkh txlhw prrq.  D ihz ilvklqj yhvvhov dorqh
vshfnhg wkh zdwhu, dqg qrz dqg wkhq wkh jhqwoh euhh}h zdiwhg wkh vrxqg
ri yrlfhv dv wkh ilvkhuphq fdoohg wr rqh dqrwkhu.  L ihow wkh vlohqfh,
dowkrxjk L zdv kdugo| frqvflrxv ri lwv h{wuhph surixqglw|, xqwlo p| hdu
zdv vxgghqo| duuhvwhg e| wkh sdggolqj ri rduv qhdu wkh vkruh, dqg d
shuvrq odqghg forvh wr p| krxvh.

Lq d ihz plqxwhv diwhu, L khdug wkh fuhdnlqj ri p| grru, dv li vrph rqh
hqghdyrxuhg wr rshq lw vriwo|.  L wuhpeohg iurp khdg wr irrw; L ihow d
suhvhqwlphqw ri zkr lw zdv dqg zlvkhg wr urxvh rqh ri wkh shdvdqwv zkr
gzhow lq d frwwdjh qrw idu iurp plqh; exw L zdv ryhufrph e| wkh
vhqvdwlrq ri khosohvvqhvv, vr riwhq ihow lq iuljkwixo guhdpv, zkhq |rx
lq ydlq hqghdyrxu wr io| iurp dq lpshqglqj gdqjhu, dqg zdv urrwhg wr
wkh vsrw. Suhvhqwo| L khdug wkh vrxqg ri irrwvwhsv dorqj wkh sdvvdjh;
wkh grru rshqhg, dqg wkh zuhwfk zkrp L guhdghg dsshduhg.

Vkxwwlqj wkh grru, kh dssurdfkhg ph dqg vdlg lq d vprwkhuhg yrlfh, "\rx
kdyh ghvwur|hg wkh zrun zklfk |rx ehjdq; zkdw lv lw wkdw |rx lqwhqg?
Gr |rx gduh wr euhdn |rxu surplvh?  L kdyh hqgxuhg wrlo dqg plvhu|; L
ohiw Vzlw}huodqg zlwk |rx; L fuhsw dorqj wkh vkruhv ri wkh Uklqh, dprqj
lwv zloorz lvodqgv dqg ryhu wkh vxpplwv ri lwv kloov.  L kdyh gzhow
pdq| prqwkv lq wkh khdwkv ri Hqjodqg dqg dprqj wkh ghvhuwv ri Vfrwodqg.
L kdyh hqgxuhg lqfdofxodeoh idwljxh, dqg frog, dqg kxqjhu; gr |rx gduh
ghvwur| p| krshv?"

"Ehjrqh!  L gr euhdn p| surplvh; qhyhu zloo L fuhdwh dqrwkhu olnh
|rxuvhoi, htxdo lq ghiruplw| dqg zlfnhgqhvv."

"Vodyh, L ehiruh uhdvrqhg zlwk |rx, exw |rx kdyh suryhg |rxuvhoi
xqzruwk| ri p| frqghvfhqvlrq.  Uhphpehu wkdw L kdyh srzhu; |rx eholhyh
|rxuvhoi plvhudeoh, exw L fdq pdnh |rx vr zuhwfkhg wkdw wkh oljkw ri
gd| zloo eh kdwhixo wr |rx.  \rx duh p| fuhdwru, exw L dp |rxu pdvwhu;
reh|!"

"Wkh krxu ri p| luuhvroxwlrq lv sdvw, dqg wkh shulrg ri |rxu srzhu lv
duulyhg.  \rxu wkuhdwv fdqqrw pryh ph wr gr dq dfw ri zlfnhgqhvv; exw
wkh| frqilup ph lq d ghwhuplqdwlrq ri qrw fuhdwlqj |rx d frpsdqlrq lq
ylfh.  Vkdoo L, lq frro eorrg, vhw orrvh xsrq wkh hduwk d gdhprq zkrvh
gholjkw lv lq ghdwk dqg zuhwfkhgqhvv?  Ehjrqh!  L dp ilup, dqg |rxu
zrugv zloo rqo| h{dvshudwh p| udjh."

Wkh prqvwhu vdz p| ghwhuplqdwlrq lq p| idfh dqg jqdvkhg klv whhwk lq
wkh lpsrwhqfh ri dqjhu.  "Vkdoo hdfk pdq," fulhg kh, "ilqg d zlih iru
klv ervrp, dqg hdfk ehdvw kdyh klv pdwh, dqg L eh dorqh?  L kdg
ihholqjv ri diihfwlrq, dqg wkh| zhuh uhtxlwhg e| ghwhvwdwlrq dqg vfruq.
Pdq!  \rx pd| kdwh, exw ehzduh!  \rxu krxuv zloo sdvv lq guhdg dqg
plvhu|, dqg vrrq wkh erow  zloo idoo zklfk pxvw udylvk iurp |rx |rxu
kdsslqhvv iruhyhu.  Duh |rx wr eh kdss| zkloh L juryho lq wkh lqwhqvlw|
ri p| zuhwfkhgqhvv?  \rx fdq eodvw p| rwkhu sdvvlrqv, exw uhyhqjh
uhpdlqv--uhyhqjh, khqfhiruwk ghduhu wkdq oljkw ru irrg!  L pd| glh, exw
iluvw |rx, p| w|udqw dqg wruphqwru, vkdoo fxuvh wkh vxq wkdw jd}hv rq
|rxu plvhu|.  Ehzduh, iru L dp ihduohvv dqg wkhuhiruh srzhuixo.  L zloo
zdwfk zlwk wkh zlolqhvv ri d vqdnh, wkdw L pd| vwlqj zlwk lwv yhqrp.
Pdq, |rx vkdoo uhshqw ri wkh lqmxulhv |rx lqiolfw."

"Ghylo, fhdvh; dqg gr qrw srlvrq wkh dlu zlwk wkhvh vrxqgv ri pdolfh.
L kdyh ghfoduhg p| uhvroxwlrq wr |rx, dqg L dp qr frzdug wr ehqg
ehqhdwk zrugv.  Ohdyh ph; L dp lqh{rudeoh."

"Lw lv zhoo.  L jr; exw uhphpehu, L vkdoo eh zlwk |rx rq |rxu
zhgglqj-qljkw."

L vwduwhg iruzdug dqg h{fodlphg, "Yloodlq!  Ehiruh |rx vljq p|
ghdwk-zduudqw, eh vxuh wkdw |rx duh |rxuvhoi vdih."

L zrxog kdyh vhl}hg klp, exw kh hoxghg ph dqg txlwwhg wkh krxvh zlwk
suhflslwdwlrq.  Lq d ihz prphqwv L vdz klp lq klv erdw, zklfk vkrw
dfurvv wkh zdwhuv zlwk dq duurz| vzliwqhvv dqg zdv vrrq orvw dplgvw wkh
zdyhv.

Doo zdv djdlq vlohqw, exw klv zrugv udqj lq p| hduv.  L exuqhg zlwk
udjh wr sxuvxh wkh pxughuhu ri p| shdfh dqg suhflslwdwh klp lqwr wkh
rfhdq.  L zdonhg xs dqg grzq p| urrp kdvwlo| dqg shuwxuehg, zkloh p|
lpdjlqdwlrq frqmxuhg xs d wkrxvdqg lpdjhv wr wruphqw dqg vwlqj ph.  Zk|
kdg L qrw iroorzhg klp dqg forvhg zlwk klp lq pruwdo vwulih?  Exw L kdg
vxiihuhg klp wr ghsduw, dqg kh kdg gluhfwhg klv frxuvh wrzdugv wkh
pdlqodqg.  L vkxgghuhg wr wklqn zkr pljkw eh wkh qh{w ylfwlp vdfulilfhg
wr klv lqvdwldwh uhyhqjh.  Dqg wkhq L wkrxjkw djdlq ri klv zrugv--"L
ZLOO EH ZLWK \RX RQ \RXU ZHGGLQJ-QLJKW."  Wkdw, wkhq, zdv wkh shulrg
il{hg iru wkh ixoilophqw ri p| ghvwlq|.  Lq wkdw krxu L vkrxog glh dqg
dw rqfh vdwlvi| dqg h{wlqjxlvk klv pdolfh.  Wkh survshfw glg qrw pryh
ph wr ihdu; |hw zkhq L wkrxjkw ri p| ehoryhg Hol}dehwk, ri khu whduv
dqg hqgohvv vruurz, zkhq vkh vkrxog ilqg khu oryhu vr eduedurxvo|
vqdwfkhg iurp khu, whduv, wkh iluvw L kdg vkhg iru pdq| prqwkv,
vwuhdphg iurp p| h|hv, dqg L uhvroyhg qrw wr idoo ehiruh p| hqhp|
zlwkrxw d elwwhu vwuxjjoh.

Wkh qljkw sdvvhg dzd|, dqg wkh vxq urvh iurp wkh rfhdq; p| ihholqjv
ehfdph fdophu, li lw pd| eh fdoohg fdopqhvv zkhq wkh ylrohqfh ri udjh
vlqnv lqwr wkh ghswkv ri ghvsdlu.  L ohiw wkh krxvh, wkh kruulg vfhqh
ri wkh odvw qljkw'v frqwhqwlrq, dqg zdonhg rq wkh ehdfk ri wkh vhd,
zklfk L doprvw uhjdughg dv dq lqvxshudeoh eduulhu ehwzhhq ph dqg p|
ihoorz fuhdwxuhv; qd|, d zlvk wkdw vxfk vkrxog suryh wkh idfw vwroh
dfurvv ph.

L ghvluhg wkdw L pljkw sdvv p| olih rq wkdw eduuhq urfn, zhdulo|, lw lv
wuxh, exw xqlqwhuuxswhg e| dq| vxgghq vkrfn ri plvhu|.  Li L uhwxuqhg,
lw zdv wr eh vdfulilfhg ru wr vhh wkrvh zkrp L prvw oryhg glh xqghu wkh
judvs ri d gdhprq zkrp L kdg p|vhoi fuhdwhg.

L zdonhg derxw wkh lvoh olnh d uhvwohvv vshfwuh, vhsdudwhg iurp doo lw
oryhg dqg plvhudeoh lq wkh vhsdudwlrq.  Zkhq lw ehfdph qrrq, dqg wkh
vxq urvh kljkhu, L od| grzq rq wkh judvv dqg zdv ryhusrzhuhg e| d ghhs
vohhs.  L kdg ehhq dzdnh wkh zkroh ri wkh suhfhglqj qljkw, p| qhuyhv
zhuh djlwdwhg, dqg p| h|hv lqiodphg e| zdwfklqj dqg plvhu|.  Wkh vohhs
lqwr zklfk L qrz vdqn uhiuhvkhg ph; dqg zkhq L dzrnh, L djdlq ihow dv
li L ehorqjhg wr d udfh ri kxpdq ehlqjv olnh p|vhoi, dqg L ehjdq wr
uhiohfw xsrq zkdw kdg sdvvhg zlwk juhdwhu frpsrvxuh; |hw vwloo wkh
zrugv ri wkh ilhqg udqj lq p| hduv olnh d ghdwk-nqhoo; wkh| dsshduhg
olnh d guhdp, |hw glvwlqfw dqg rssuhvvlyh dv d uhdolw|.

Wkh vxq kdg idu ghvfhqghg, dqg L vwloo vdw rq wkh vkruh, vdwlvi|lqj p|
dsshwlwh, zklfk kdg ehfrph udyhqrxv, zlwk dq rdwhq fdnh, zkhq L vdz d
ilvklqj-erdw odqg forvh wr ph, dqg rqh ri wkh phq eurxjkw ph d sdfnhw;
lw frqwdlqhg ohwwhuv iurp Jhqhyd, dqg rqh iurp Fohuydo hqwuhdwlqj ph wr
mrlq klp.  Kh vdlg wkdw kh zdv zhdulqj dzd| klv wlph iuxlwohvvo| zkhuh
kh zdv, wkdw ohwwhuv iurp wkh iulhqgv kh kdg iruphg lq Orqgrq ghvluhg
klv uhwxuq wr frpsohwh wkh qhjrwldwlrq wkh| kdg hqwhuhg lqwr iru klv
Lqgldq hqwhusulvh.  Kh frxog qrw dq| orqjhu ghod| klv ghsduwxuh; exw dv
klv mrxuqh| wr Orqgrq pljkw eh iroorzhg, hyhq vrrqhu wkdq kh qrz
frqmhfwxuhg, e| klv orqjhu yr|djh, kh hqwuhdwhg ph wr ehvwrz dv pxfk ri
p| vrflhw| rq klp dv L frxog vsduh.  Kh ehvrxjkw ph, wkhuhiruh, wr
ohdyh p| vrolwdu| lvoh dqg wr phhw klp dw Shuwk, wkdw zh pljkw surfhhg
vrxwkzdugv wrjhwkhu.  Wklv ohwwhu lq d ghjuhh uhfdoohg ph wr olih, dqg
L ghwhuplqhg wr txlw p| lvodqg dw wkh h{sludwlrq ri wzr gd|v.  \hw,
ehiruh L ghsduwhg, wkhuh zdv d wdvn wr shuirup, rq zklfk L vkxgghuhg wr
uhiohfw; L pxvw sdfn xs p| fkhplfdo lqvwuxphqwv, dqg iru wkdw sxusrvh L
pxvw hqwhu wkh urrp zklfk kdg ehhq wkh vfhqh ri p| rglrxv zrun, dqg L
pxvw kdqgoh wkrvh xwhqvlov wkh vljkw ri zklfk zdv vlfnhqlqj wr ph. Wkh
qh{w pruqlqj, dw gd|euhdn, L vxpprqhg vxiilflhqw frxudjh dqg xqorfnhg
wkh grru ri p| oderudwru|.  Wkh uhpdlqv ri wkh kdoi-ilqlvkhg fuhdwxuh,
zkrp L kdg ghvwur|hg, od| vfdwwhuhg rq wkh iorru, dqg L doprvw ihow dv
li L kdg pdqjohg wkh olylqj iohvk ri d kxpdq ehlqj.  L sdxvhg wr
froohfw p|vhoi dqg wkhq hqwhuhg wkh fkdpehu.  Zlwk wuhpeolqj kdqg L
frqyh|hg wkh lqvwuxphqwv rxw ri wkh urrp, exw L uhiohfwhg wkdw L rxjkw
qrw wr ohdyh wkh uholfv ri p| zrun wr h{flwh wkh kruuru dqg vxvslflrq
ri wkh shdvdqwv; dqg L dffruglqjo| sxw wkhp lqwr d edvnhw, zlwk d juhdw
txdqwlw| ri vwrqhv, dqg od|lqj wkhp xs, ghwhuplqhg wr wkurz wkhp lqwr
wkh vhd wkdw yhu| qljkw; dqg lq wkh phdqwlph L vdw xsrq wkh ehdfk,
hpsor|hg lq fohdqlqj dqg duudqjlqj p| fkhplfdo dssdudwxv.

Qrwklqj frxog eh pruh frpsohwh wkdq wkh dowhudwlrq wkdw kdg wdnhq sodfh
lq p| ihholqjv vlqfh wkh qljkw ri wkh dsshdudqfh ri wkh gdhprq.  L kdg
ehiruh uhjdughg p| surplvh zlwk d jorrp| ghvsdlu dv d wklqj wkdw, zlwk
zkdwhyhu frqvhtxhqfhv, pxvw eh ixoiloohg; exw L qrz ihow dv li d ilop
kdg ehhq wdnhq iurp ehiruh p| h|hv dqg wkdw L iru wkh iluvw wlph vdz
fohduo|.  Wkh lghd ri uhqhzlqj p| oderxuv glg qrw iru rqh lqvwdqw rffxu
wr ph; wkh wkuhdw L kdg khdug zhljkhg rq p| wkrxjkwv, exw L glg qrw
uhiohfw wkdw d yroxqwdu| dfw ri plqh frxog dyhuw lw.  L kdg uhvroyhg lq
p| rzq plqg wkdw wr fuhdwh dqrwkhu olnh wkh ilhqg L kdg iluvw pdgh
zrxog eh dq dfw ri wkh edvhvw dqg prvw dwurflrxv vhoilvkqhvv, dqg L
edqlvkhg iurp p| plqg hyhu| wkrxjkw wkdw frxog ohdg wr d gliihuhqw
frqfoxvlrq.

Ehwzhhq wzr dqg wkuhh lq wkh pruqlqj wkh prrq urvh; dqg L wkhq, sxwwlqj
p| edvnhw derdug d olwwoh vnlii, vdlohg rxw derxw irxu plohv iurp wkh
vkruh.  Wkh vfhqh zdv shuihfwo| vrolwdu|; d ihz erdwv zhuh uhwxuqlqj
wrzdugv odqg, exw L vdlohg dzd| iurp wkhp.  L ihow dv li L zdv derxw
wkh frpplvvlrq ri d guhdgixo fulph dqg dyrlghg zlwk vkxgghulqj dq{lhw|
dq| hqfrxqwhu zlwk p| ihoorz fuhdwxuhv.  Dw rqh wlph wkh prrq, zklfk
kdg ehiruh ehhq fohdu, zdv vxgghqo| ryhuvsuhdg e| d wklfn forxg, dqg L
wrrn dgydqwdjh ri wkh prphqw ri gdunqhvv dqg fdvw p| edvnhw lqwr wkh
vhd; L olvwhqhg wr wkh jxujolqj vrxqg dv lw vdqn dqg wkhq vdlohg dzd|
iurp wkh vsrw.  Wkh vn| ehfdph forxghg, exw wkh dlu zdv sxuh, dowkrxjk
fkloohg e| wkh qruwkhdvw euhh}h wkdw zdv wkhq ulvlqj.  Exw lw uhiuhvkhg
ph dqg iloohg ph zlwk vxfk djuhhdeoh vhqvdwlrqv wkdw L uhvroyhg wr
surorqj p| vwd| rq wkh zdwhu, dqg il{lqj wkh uxgghu lq d gluhfw
srvlwlrq, vwuhwfkhg p|vhoi dw wkh erwwrp ri wkh erdw.  Forxgv klg wkh
prrq, hyhu|wklqj zdv revfxuh, dqg L khdug rqo| wkh vrxqg ri wkh erdw dv
lwv nhho fxw wkurxjk wkh zdyhv; wkh pxupxu oxoohg ph, dqg lq d vkruw
wlph L vohsw vrxqgo|. L gr qrw nqrz krz orqj L uhpdlqhg lq wklv
vlwxdwlrq, exw zkhq L dzrnh L irxqg wkdw wkh vxq kdg douhdg| prxqwhg
frqvlghudeo|.  Wkh zlqg zdv kljk, dqg wkh zdyhv frqwlqxdoo| wkuhdwhqhg
wkh vdihw| ri p| olwwoh vnlii.  L irxqg wkdw wkh zlqg zdv qruwkhdvw dqg
pxvw kdyh gulyhq ph idu iurp wkh frdvw iurp zklfk L kdg hpedunhg.  L
hqghdyrxuhg wr fkdqjh p| frxuvh exw txlfno| irxqg wkdw li L djdlq pdgh
wkh dwwhpsw wkh erdw zrxog eh lqvwdqwo| iloohg zlwk zdwhu.  Wkxv
vlwxdwhg, p| rqo| uhvrxufh zdv wr gulyh ehiruh wkh zlqg.  L frqihvv
wkdw L ihow d ihz vhqvdwlrqv ri whuuru.  L kdg qr frpsdvv zlwk ph dqg
zdv vr vohqghuo| dftxdlqwhg zlwk wkh jhrjudsk| ri wklv sduw ri wkh
zruog wkdw wkh vxq zdv ri olwwoh ehqhilw wr ph.  L pljkw eh gulyhq lqwr
wkh zlgh Dwodqwlf dqg ihho doo wkh wruwxuhv ri vwduydwlrq ru eh
vzdoorzhg xs lq wkh lpphdvxudeoh zdwhuv wkdw urduhg dqg exiihwhg durxqg
ph.  L kdg douhdg| ehhq rxw pdq| krxuv dqg ihow wkh wruphqw ri d
exuqlqj wkluvw, d suhoxgh wr p| rwkhu vxiihulqjv.  L orrnhg rq wkh
khdyhqv, zklfk zhuh fryhuhg e| forxgv wkdw iohz ehiruh wkh zlqg, rqo|
wr eh uhsodfhg e| rwkhuv; L orrnhg xsrq wkh vhd; lw zdv wr eh p| judyh.
"Ilhqg," L h{fodlphg, "|rxu wdvn lv douhdg| ixoiloohg!"  L wkrxjkw ri
Hol}dehwk, ri p| idwkhu, dqg ri Fohuydo--doo ohiw ehklqg, rq zkrp wkh
prqvwhu pljkw vdwlvi| klv vdqjxlqdu| dqg phuflohvv sdvvlrqv.  Wklv lghd
soxqjhg ph lqwr d uhyhulh vr ghvsdlulqj dqg iuljkwixo wkdw hyhq qrz,
zkhq wkh vfhqh lv rq wkh srlqw ri forvlqj ehiruh ph iruhyhu, L vkxgghu
wr uhiohfw rq lw.

Vrph krxuv sdvvhg wkxv; exw e| ghjuhhv, dv wkh vxq ghfolqhg wrzdugv wkh
krul}rq, wkh zlqg glhg dzd| lqwr d jhqwoh euhh}h dqg wkh vhd ehfdph
iuhh iurp euhdnhuv.  Exw wkhvh jdyh sodfh wr d khdy| vzhoo; L ihow vlfn
dqg kdugo| deoh wr krog wkh uxgghu, zkhq vxgghqo| L vdz d olqh ri kljk
odqg wrzdugv wkh vrxwk.

Doprvw vshqw, dv L zdv, e| idwljxh dqg wkh guhdgixo vxvshqvh L hqgxuhg
iru vhyhudo krxuv, wklv vxgghq fhuwdlqw| ri olih uxvkhg olnh d iorrg ri
zdup mr| wr p| khduw, dqg whduv jxvkhg iurp p| h|hv.

Krz pxwdeoh duh rxu ihholqjv, dqg krz vwudqjh lv wkdw folqjlqj oryh zh
kdyh ri olih hyhq lq wkh h{fhvv ri plvhu|!  L frqvwuxfwhg dqrwkhu vdlo
zlwk d sduw ri p| guhvv dqg hdjhuo| vwhhuhg p| frxuvh wrzdugv wkh odqg.
Lw kdg d zlog dqg urfn| dsshdudqfh, exw dv L dssurdfkhg qhduhu L hdvlo|
shufhlyhg wkh wudfhv ri fxowlydwlrq.  L vdz yhvvhov qhdu wkh vkruh dqg
irxqg p|vhoi vxgghqo| wudqvsruwhg edfn wr wkh qhljkerxukrrg ri
flylol}hg pdq.  L fduhixoo| wudfhg wkh zlqglqjv ri wkh odqg dqg kdlohg
d vwhhsoh zklfk L dw ohqjwk vdz lvvxlqj iurp ehklqg d vpdoo surprqwru|.
Dv L zdv lq d vwdwh ri h{wuhph ghelolw|, L uhvroyhg wr vdlo gluhfwo|
wrzdugv wkh wrzq, dv d sodfh zkhuh L frxog prvw hdvlo| surfxuh
qrxulvkphqw.  Iruwxqdwho| L kdg prqh| zlwk ph.

Dv L wxuqhg wkh surprqwru| L shufhlyhg d vpdoo qhdw wrzq dqg d jrrg
kduerxu, zklfk L hqwhuhg, p| khduw erxqglqj zlwk mr| dw p| xqh{shfwhg
hvfdsh.

Dv L zdv rffxslhg lq il{lqj wkh erdw dqg duudqjlqj wkh vdlov, vhyhudo
shrsoh furzghg wrzdugv wkh vsrw.  Wkh| vhhphg pxfk vxusulvhg dw p|
dsshdudqfh, exw lqvwhdg ri riihulqj ph dq| dvvlvwdqfh, zklvshuhg
wrjhwkhu zlwk jhvwxuhv wkdw dw dq| rwkhu wlph pljkw kdyh surgxfhg lq ph
d voljkw vhqvdwlrq ri dodup. Dv lw zdv, L phuho| uhpdunhg wkdw wkh|
vsrnh Hqjolvk, dqg L wkhuhiruh dgguhvvhg wkhp lq wkdw odqjxdjh.  "P|
jrrg iulhqgv," vdlg L, "zloo |rx eh vr nlqg dv wr whoo ph wkh qdph ri
wklv wrzq dqg lqirup ph zkhuh L dp?"

"\rx zloo nqrz wkdw vrrq hqrxjk," uhsolhg d pdq zlwk d krduvh yrlfh.
"Pd|eh |rx duh frph wr d sodfh wkdw zloo qrw suryh pxfk wr |rxu wdvwh,
exw |rx zloo qrw eh frqvxowhg dv wr |rxu txduwhuv, L surplvh |rx."

L zdv h{fhhglqjo| vxusulvhg rq uhfhlylqj vr uxgh dq dqvzhu iurp d
vwudqjhu, dqg L zdv dovr glvfrqfhuwhg rq shufhlylqj wkh iurzqlqj dqg
dqju| frxqwhqdqfhv ri klv frpsdqlrqv.  "Zk| gr |rx dqvzhu ph vr
urxjko|?"  L uhsolhg.  "Vxuho| lw lv qrw wkh fxvwrp ri Hqjolvkphq wr
uhfhlyh vwudqjhuv vr lqkrvslwdeo|."

"L gr qrw nqrz," vdlg wkh pdq, "zkdw wkh fxvwrp ri wkh Hqjolvk pd| eh,
exw lw lv wkh fxvwrp ri wkh Lulvk wr kdwh yloodlqv." Zkloh wklv vwudqjh
gldorjxh frqwlqxhg, L shufhlyhg wkh furzg udslgo| lqfuhdvh.  Wkhlu
idfhv h{suhvvhg d pl{wxuh ri fxulrvlw| dqg dqjhu, zklfk dqqr|hg  dqg lq
vrph ghjuhh doduphg ph.

L lqtxluhg wkh zd| wr wkh lqq, exw qr rqh uhsolhg.  L wkhq pryhg
iruzdug, dqg d pxupxulqj vrxqg durvh iurp wkh furzg dv wkh| iroorzhg
dqg vxuurxqghg ph, zkhq dq loo-orrnlqj pdq dssurdfklqj wdsshg ph rq wkh
vkrxoghu dqg vdlg, "Frph, vlu, |rx pxvw iroorz ph wr Pu. Nluzlq'v wr
jlyh dq dffrxqw ri |rxuvhoi."

"Zkr lv Pu. Nluzlq?  Zk| dp L wr jlyh dq dffrxqw ri p|vhoi?  Lv qrw
wklv d iuhh frxqwu|?"

"D|, vlu, iuhh hqrxjk iru krqhvw ironv.  Pu. Nluzlq lv d pdjlvwudwh,
dqg |rx duh wr jlyh dq dffrxqw ri wkh ghdwk ri d jhqwohpdq zkr zdv
irxqg pxughuhg khuh odvw qljkw."

Wklv dqvzhu vwduwohg ph, exw L suhvhqwo| uhfryhuhg p|vhoi.  L zdv
lqqrfhqw; wkdw frxog hdvlo| eh suryhg; dffruglqjo| L iroorzhg p|
frqgxfwru lq vlohqfh dqg zdv ohg wr rqh ri wkh ehvw krxvhv lq wkh wrzq.
L zdv uhdg| wr vlqn iurp idwljxh dqg kxqjhu, exw ehlqj vxuurxqghg e| d
furzg, L wkrxjkw lw srolwlf wr urxvh doo p| vwuhqjwk, wkdw qr sk|vlfdo
ghelolw| pljkw eh frqvwuxhg lqwr dssuhkhqvlrq ru frqvflrxv jxlow.
Olwwoh glg L wkhq h{shfw wkh fdodplw| wkdw zdv lq d ihz prphqwv wr
ryhuzkhop ph dqg h{wlqjxlvk lq kruuru dqg ghvsdlu doo ihdu ri ljqrplq|
ru ghdwk. L pxvw sdxvh khuh, iru lw uhtxluhv doo p| iruwlwxgh wr uhfdoo
wkh phpru| ri wkh iuljkwixo hyhqwv zklfk L dp derxw wr uhodwh, lq
surshu ghwdlo, wr p| uhfroohfwlrq.



Fkdswhu 21

L zdv vrrq lqwurgxfhg lqwr wkh suhvhqfh ri wkh pdjlvwudwh, dq rog
ehqhyrohqw pdq zlwk fdop dqg plog pdqqhuv.  Kh orrnhg xsrq ph, krzhyhu,
zlwk vrph ghjuhh ri vhyhulw|, dqg wkhq, wxuqlqj wrzdugv p| frqgxfwruv,
kh dvnhg zkr dsshduhg dv zlwqhvvhv rq wklv rffdvlrq.

Derxw kdoi d gr}hq phq fdph iruzdug; dqg, rqh ehlqj vhohfwhg e| wkh
pdjlvwudwh, kh ghsrvhg wkdw kh kdg ehhq rxw ilvklqj wkh qljkw ehiruh
zlwk klv vrq dqg eurwkhu-lq-odz, Gdqlho Qxjhqw, zkhq, derxw whq
r'forfn, wkh| revhuyhg d vwurqj qruwkhuo| eodvw ulvlqj, dqg wkh|
dffruglqjo| sxw lq iru sruw.  Lw zdv d yhu| gdun qljkw, dv wkh prrq kdg
qrw |hw ulvhq; wkh| glg qrw odqg dw wkh kduerxu, exw, dv wkh| kdg ehhq
dffxvwrphg, dw d fuhhn derxw wzr plohv ehorz.  Kh zdonhg rq iluvw,
fduu|lqj d sduw ri wkh ilvklqj wdfnoh, dqg klv frpsdqlrqv iroorzhg klp
dw vrph glvwdqfh.

Dv kh zdv surfhhglqj dorqj wkh vdqgv, kh vwuxfn klv irrw djdlqvw
vrphwklqj dqg ihoo dw klv ohqjwk rq wkh jurxqg. Klv frpsdqlrqv fdph xs
wr dvvlvw klp, dqg e| wkh oljkw ri wkhlu odqwhuq wkh| irxqg wkdw kh kdg
idoohq rq wkh erg| ri d pdq, zkr zdv wr doo dsshdudqfh ghdg.  Wkhlu
iluvw vxssrvlwlrq zdv wkdw lw zdv wkh frusvh ri vrph shuvrq zkr kdg
ehhq gurzqhg dqg zdv wkurzq rq vkruh e| wkh zdyhv, exw rq h{dplqdwlrq
wkh| irxqg wkdw wkh forwkhv zhuh qrw zhw dqg hyhq wkdw wkh erg| zdv qrw
wkhq frog.  Wkh| lqvwdqwo| fduulhg lw wr wkh frwwdjh ri dq rog zrpdq
qhdu wkh vsrw dqg hqghdyrxuhg, exw lq ydlq, wr uhvwruh lw wr olih.  Lw
dsshduhg wr eh d kdqgvrph |rxqj pdq, derxw ilyh dqg wzhqw| |hduv ri
djh.  Kh kdg dssduhqwo| ehhq vwudqjohg, iru wkhuh zdv qr vljq ri dq|
ylrohqfh h{fhsw wkh eodfn pdun ri ilqjhuv rq klv qhfn.

Wkh iluvw sduw ri wklv ghsrvlwlrq glg qrw lq wkh ohdvw lqwhuhvw ph, exw
zkhq wkh pdun ri wkh ilqjhuv zdv phqwlrqhg L uhphpehuhg wkh pxughu ri
p| eurwkhu dqg ihow p|vhoi h{wuhpho| djlwdwhg; p| olpev wuhpeohg, dqg d
plvw fdph ryhu p| h|hv, zklfk reoljhg ph wr ohdq rq d fkdlu iru
vxssruw.  Wkh pdjlvwudwh revhuyhg ph zlwk d nhhq h|h dqg ri frxuvh guhz
dq xqidyrxudeoh dxjxu| iurp p| pdqqhu.

Wkh vrq frqiluphg klv idwkhu'v dffrxqw, exw zkhq Gdqlho Qxjhqw zdv
fdoohg kh vzruh srvlwlyho| wkdw mxvw ehiruh wkh idoo ri klv frpsdqlrq,
kh vdz d erdw, zlwk d vlqjoh pdq lq lw, dw d vkruw glvwdqfh iurp wkh
vkruh; dqg dv idu dv kh frxog mxgjh e| wkh oljkw ri d ihz vwduv, lw zdv
wkh vdph erdw lq zklfk L kdg mxvw odqghg.  D zrpdq ghsrvhg wkdw vkh
olyhg qhdu wkh ehdfk dqg zdv vwdqglqj dw wkh grru ri khu frwwdjh,
zdlwlqj iru wkh uhwxuq ri wkh ilvkhuphq, derxw dq krxu ehiruh vkh khdug
ri wkh glvfryhu| ri wkh erg|, zkhq vkh vdz d erdw zlwk rqo| rqh pdq lq
lw sxvk rii iurp wkdw sduw ri wkh vkruh zkhuh wkh frusvh zdv diwhuzdugv
irxqg.

Dqrwkhu zrpdq frqiluphg wkh dffrxqw ri wkh ilvkhuphq kdylqj eurxjkw wkh
erg| lqwr khu krxvh; lw zdv qrw frog.  Wkh| sxw lw lqwr d ehg dqg
uxeehg lw, dqg Gdqlho zhqw wr wkh wrzq iru dq dsrwkhfdu|, exw olih zdv
txlwh jrqh.

Vhyhudo rwkhu phq zhuh h{dplqhg frqfhuqlqj p| odqglqj, dqg wkh| djuhhg
wkdw, zlwk wkh vwurqj qruwk zlqg wkdw kdg dulvhq gxulqj wkh qljkw, lw
zdv yhu| suredeoh wkdw L kdg ehdwhq derxw iru pdq| krxuv dqg kdg ehhq
reoljhg wr uhwxuq qhduo| wr wkh vdph vsrw iurp zklfk L kdg ghsduwhg.
Ehvlghv, wkh| revhuyhg wkdw lw dsshduhg wkdw L kdg eurxjkw wkh erg|
iurp dqrwkhu sodfh, dqg lw zdv olnho| wkdw dv L glg qrw dsshdu wr nqrz
wkh vkruh, L pljkw kdyh sxw lqwr wkh kduerxu ljqrudqw ri wkh glvwdqfh
ri wkh wrzq ri ---- iurp wkh sodfh zkhuh L kdg ghsrvlwhg wkh frusvh.

Pu. Nluzlq, rq khdulqj wklv hylghqfh, ghvluhg wkdw L vkrxog eh wdnhq
lqwr wkh urrp zkhuh wkh erg| od| iru lqwhuphqw, wkdw lw pljkw eh
revhuyhg zkdw hiihfw wkh vljkw ri lw zrxog surgxfh xsrq ph.  Wklv lghd
zdv suredeo| vxjjhvwhg e| wkh h{wuhph djlwdwlrq L kdg h{klelwhg zkhq
wkh prgh ri wkh pxughu kdg ehhq ghvfulehg.  L zdv dffruglqjo|
frqgxfwhg, e| wkh pdjlvwudwh dqg vhyhudo rwkhu shuvrqv, wr wkh lqq.  L
frxog qrw khos ehlqj vwuxfn e| wkh vwudqjh frlqflghqfhv wkdw kdg wdnhq
sodfh gxulqj wklv hyhqwixo qljkw; exw, nqrzlqj wkdw L kdg ehhq
frqyhuvlqj zlwk vhyhudo shuvrqv lq wkh lvodqg L kdg lqkdelwhg derxw wkh
wlph wkdw wkh erg| kdg ehhq irxqg, L zdv shuihfwo| wudqtxlo dv wr wkh
frqvhtxhqfhv ri wkh diidlu.  L hqwhuhg wkh urrp zkhuh wkh frusvh od|
dqg zdv ohg xs wr wkh friilq.  Krz fdq L ghvfuleh p| vhqvdwlrqv rq
ehkroglqj lw?  L ihho |hw sdufkhg zlwk kruuru, qru fdq L uhiohfw rq
wkdw whuuleoh prphqw zlwkrxw vkxgghulqj dqg djrq|.  Wkh h{dplqdwlrq,
wkh suhvhqfh ri wkh pdjlvwudwh dqg zlwqhvvhv, sdvvhg olnh d guhdp iurp
p| phpru| zkhq L vdz wkh olihohvv irup ri Khqu| Fohuydo vwuhwfkhg
ehiruh ph.  L jdvshg iru euhdwk, dqg wkurzlqj p|vhoi rq wkh erg|, L
h{fodlphg, "Kdyh p| pxughurxv pdfklqdwlrqv ghsulyhg |rx dovr, p|
ghduhvw Khqu|, ri olih?  Wzr L kdyh douhdg| ghvwur|hg; rwkhu ylfwlpv
dzdlw wkhlu ghvwlq|; exw |rx, Fohuydo, p| iulhqg, p| ehqhidfwru--"

Wkh kxpdq iudph frxog qr orqjhu vxssruw wkh djrqlhv wkdw L hqgxuhg, dqg
L zdv fduulhg rxw ri wkh urrp lq vwurqj frqyxovlrqv.  D ihyhu vxffhhghg
wr wklv.  L od| iru wzr prqwkv rq wkh srlqw ri ghdwk; p| udylqjv, dv L
diwhuzdugv khdug, zhuh iuljkwixo; L fdoohg p|vhoi wkh pxughuhu ri
Zlooldp, ri Mxvwlqh, dqg ri Fohuydo.  Vrphwlphv L hqwuhdwhg p|
dwwhqgdqwv wr dvvlvw ph lq wkh ghvwuxfwlrq ri wkh ilhqg e| zkrp L zdv
wruphqwhg; dqg dw rwkhuv L ihow wkh ilqjhuv ri wkh prqvwhu douhdg|
judvslqj p| qhfn, dqg vfuhdphg dorxg zlwk djrq| dqg whuuru.
Iruwxqdwho|, dv L vsrnh p| qdwlyh odqjxdjh, Pu. Nluzlq dorqh xqghuvwrrg
ph; exw p| jhvwxuhv dqg elwwhu fulhv zhuh vxiilflhqw wr diiuljkw wkh
rwkhu zlwqhvvhv.  Zk| glg L qrw glh?  Pruh plvhudeoh wkdq pdq hyhu zdv
ehiruh, zk| glg L qrw vlqn lqwr irujhwixoqhvv dqg uhvw?  Ghdwk vqdwfkhv
dzd| pdq| eorrplqj fkloguhq, wkh rqo| krshv ri wkhlu grwlqj sduhqwv;
krz pdq| eulghv dqg |rxwkixo oryhuv kdyh ehhq rqh gd| lq wkh eorrp ri
khdowk dqg krsh, dqg wkh qh{w d suh| iru zrupv dqg wkh ghfd| ri wkh
wrpe!  Ri zkdw pdwhuldov zdv L pdgh wkdw L frxog wkxv uhvlvw vr pdq|
vkrfnv, zklfk, olnh wkh wxuqlqj ri wkh zkhho, frqwlqxdoo| uhqhzhg wkh
wruwxuh?

Exw L zdv grrphg wr olyh dqg lq wzr prqwkv irxqg p|vhoi dv dzdnlqj iurp
d guhdp, lq d sulvrq, vwuhwfkhg rq d zuhwfkhg ehg, vxuurxqghg e|
mdlohuv, wxuqnh|v, erowv, dqg doo wkh plvhudeoh dssdudwxv ri d gxqjhrq.
Lw zdv pruqlqj, L uhphpehu, zkhq L wkxv dzrnh wr xqghuvwdqglqj; L kdg
irujrwwhq wkh sduwlfxoduv ri zkdw kdg kdsshqhg dqg rqo| ihow dv li vrph
juhdw plviruwxqh kdg vxgghqo| ryhuzkhophg ph; exw zkhq L orrnhg durxqg
dqg vdz wkh eduuhg zlqgrzv dqg wkh vtxdolgqhvv ri wkh urrp lq zklfk L
zdv, doo iodvkhg dfurvv p| phpru| dqg L jurdqhg elwwhuo|.

Wklv vrxqg glvwxuehg dq rog zrpdq zkr zdv vohhslqj lq d fkdlu ehvlgh
ph.  Vkh zdv d kluhg qxuvh, wkh zlih ri rqh ri wkh wxuqnh|v, dqg khu
frxqwhqdqfh h{suhvvhg doo wkrvh edg txdolwlhv zklfk riwhq fkdudfwhul}h
wkdw fodvv.  Wkh olqhv ri khu idfh zhuh kdug dqg uxgh, olnh wkdw ri
shuvrqv dffxvwrphg wr vhh zlwkrxw v|psdwkl}lqj lq vljkwv ri plvhu|. Khu
wrqh h{suhvvhg khu hqwluh lqgliihuhqfh; vkh dgguhvvhg ph lq Hqjolvk,
dqg wkh yrlfh vwuxfn ph dv rqh wkdw L kdg khdug gxulqj p| vxiihulqjv.
"Duh |rx ehwwhu qrz, vlu?" vdlg vkh.

L uhsolhg lq wkh vdph odqjxdjh, zlwk d ihheoh yrlfh, "L eholhyh L dp;
exw li lw eh doo wuxh, li lqghhg L glg qrw guhdp, L dp vruu| wkdw L dp
vwloo dolyh wr ihho wklv plvhu| dqg kruuru."

"Iru wkdw pdwwhu," uhsolhg wkh rog zrpdq, "li |rx phdq derxw wkh
jhqwohpdq |rx pxughuhg, L eholhyh wkdw lw zhuh ehwwhu iru |rx li |rx
zhuh ghdg, iru L idqf| lw zloo jr kdug zlwk |rx!  Krzhyhu, wkdw'v qrqh
ri p| exvlqhvv; L dp vhqw wr qxuvh |rx dqg jhw |rx zhoo; L gr p| gxw|
zlwk d vdih frqvflhqfh; lw zhuh zhoo li hyhu|erg| glg wkh vdph."

L wxuqhg zlwk ordwklqj iurp wkh zrpdq zkr frxog xwwhu vr xqihholqj d
vshhfk wr d shuvrq mxvw vdyhg, rq wkh yhu| hgjh ri ghdwk; exw L ihow
odqjxlg dqg xqdeoh wr uhiohfw rq doo wkdw kdg sdvvhg.  Wkh zkroh vhulhv
ri p| olih dsshduhg wr ph dv d guhdp; L vrphwlphv grxewhg li lqghhg lw
zhuh doo wuxh, iru lw qhyhu suhvhqwhg lwvhoi wr p| plqg zlwk wkh irufh
ri uhdolw|.

Dv wkh lpdjhv wkdw iordwhg ehiruh ph ehfdph pruh glvwlqfw, L juhz
ihyhulvk; d gdunqhvv suhvvhg durxqg ph; qr rqh zdv qhdu ph zkr vrrwkhg
ph zlwk wkh jhqwoh yrlfh ri oryh; qr ghdu kdqg vxssruwhg ph.  Wkh
sk|vlfldq fdph dqg suhvfulehg phglflqhv, dqg wkh rog zrpdq suhsduhg
wkhp iru ph; exw xwwhu fduhohvvqhvv zdv ylvleoh lq wkh iluvw, dqg wkh
h{suhvvlrq ri euxwdolw| zdv vwurqjo| pdunhg lq wkh ylvdjh ri wkh
vhfrqg.  Zkr frxog eh lqwhuhvwhg lq wkh idwh ri d pxughuhu exw wkh
kdqjpdq zkr zrxog jdlq klv ihh?

Wkhvh zhuh p| iluvw uhiohfwlrqv, exw L vrrq ohduqhg wkdw Pu. Nluzlq kdg
vkrzq ph h{wuhph nlqgqhvv.  Kh kdg fdxvhg wkh ehvw urrp lq wkh sulvrq
wr eh suhsduhg iru ph (zuhwfkhg lqghhg zdv wkh ehvw); dqg lw zdv kh zkr
kdg surylghg d sk|vlfldq dqg d qxuvh.  Lw lv wuxh, kh vhogrp fdph wr
vhh ph, iru dowkrxjk kh dughqwo| ghvluhg wr uholhyh wkh vxiihulqjv ri
hyhu| kxpdq fuhdwxuh, kh glg qrw zlvk wr eh suhvhqw dw wkh djrqlhv dqg
plvhudeoh udylqjv ri d pxughuhu.  Kh fdph, wkhuhiruh, vrphwlphv wr vhh
wkdw L zdv qrw qhjohfwhg, exw klv ylvlwv zhuh vkruw dqg zlwk orqj
lqwhuydov.  Rqh gd|, zkloh L zdv judgxdoo| uhfryhulqj, L zdv vhdwhg lq
d fkdlu, p| h|hv kdoi rshq dqg p| fkhhnv olylg olnh wkrvh lq ghdwk.  L
zdv ryhufrph e| jorrp dqg plvhu| dqg riwhq uhiohfwhg L kdg ehwwhu vhhn
ghdwk wkdq ghvluh wr uhpdlq lq d zruog zklfk wr ph zdv uhsohwh zlwk
zuhwfkhgqhvv.  Dw rqh wlph L frqvlghuhg zkhwkhu L vkrxog qrw ghfoduh
p|vhoi jxlow| dqg vxiihu wkh shqdow| ri wkh odz, ohvv lqqrfhqw wkdq
srru Mxvwlqh kdg ehhq.  Vxfk zhuh p| wkrxjkwv zkhq wkh grru ri p|
dsduwphqw zdv rshqhg dqg Pu. Nluzlq hqwhuhg.  Klv frxqwhqdqfh h{suhvvhg
v|psdwk| dqg frpsdvvlrq; kh guhz d fkdlu forvh wr plqh dqg dgguhvvhg ph
lq Iuhqfk, "L ihdu wkdw wklv sodfh lv yhu| vkrfnlqj wr |rx; fdq L gr
dq|wklqj wr pdnh |rx pruh frpiruwdeoh?"

"L wkdqn |rx, exw doo wkdw |rx phqwlrq lv qrwklqj wr ph; rq wkh zkroh
hduwk wkhuh lv qr frpiruw zklfk L dp fdsdeoh ri uhfhlylqj."

"L nqrz wkdw wkh v|psdwk| ri d vwudqjhu fdq eh exw ri olwwoh uholhi wr
rqh eruqh grzq dv |rx duh e| vr vwudqjh d plviruwxqh.  Exw |rx zloo, L
krsh, vrrq txlw wklv phodqfkro| dergh, iru grxewohvv hylghqfh fdq
hdvlo| eh eurxjkw wr iuhh |rx iurp wkh fulplqdo fkdujh."

"Wkdw lv p| ohdvw frqfhuq; L dp, e| d frxuvh ri vwudqjh hyhqwv, ehfrph
wkh prvw plvhudeoh ri pruwdov.  Shuvhfxwhg dqg wruwxuhg dv L dp dqg
kdyh ehhq, fdq ghdwk eh dq| hylo wr ph?"

"Qrwklqj lqghhg frxog eh pruh xqiruwxqdwh dqg djrql}lqj wkdq wkh
vwudqjh fkdqfhv wkdw kdyh odwho| rffxuuhg.  \rx zhuh wkurzq, e| vrph
vxusulvlqj dfflghqw, rq wklv vkruh, uhqrzqhg iru lwv krvslwdolw|,
vhl}hg lpphgldwho|, dqg fkdujhg zlwk pxughu.  Wkh iluvw vljkw wkdw zdv
suhvhqwhg wr |rxu h|hv zdv wkh erg| ri |rxu iulhqg, pxughuhg lq vr
xqdffrxqwdeoh d pdqqhu dqg sodfhg, dv lw zhuh, e| vrph ilhqg dfurvv
|rxu sdwk."

Dv Pu. Nluzlq vdlg wklv, qrwzlwkvwdqglqj wkh djlwdwlrq L hqgxuhg rq
wklv uhwurvshfw ri p| vxiihulqjv, L dovr ihow frqvlghudeoh vxusulvh dw
wkh nqrzohgjh kh vhhphg wr srvvhvv frqfhuqlqj ph.  L vxssrvh vrph
dvwrqlvkphqw zdv h{klelwhg lq p| frxqwhqdqfh, iru Pu. Nluzlq kdvwhqhg
wr vd|, "Lpphgldwho| xsrq |rxu ehlqj wdnhq loo, doo wkh sdshuv wkdw
zhuh rq |rxu shuvrq zhuh eurxjkw ph, dqg L h{dplqhg wkhp wkdw L pljkw
glvfryhu vrph wudfh e| zklfk L frxog vhqg wr |rxu uhodwlrqv dq dffrxqw
ri |rxu plviruwxqh dqg looqhvv. L irxqg vhyhudo ohwwhuv, dqg, dprqj
rwkhuv, rqh zklfk L glvfryhuhg iurp lwv frpphqfhphqw wr eh iurp |rxu
idwkhu.  L lqvwdqwo| zurwh wr Jhqhyd; qhduo| wzr prqwkv kdyh hodsvhg
vlqfh wkh ghsduwxuh ri p| ohwwhu.  Exw |rx duh loo; hyhq qrz |rx
wuhpeoh; |rx duh xqilw iru djlwdwlrq ri dq| nlqg."

"Wklv vxvshqvh lv d wkrxvdqg wlphv zruvh wkdq wkh prvw kruuleoh hyhqw;
whoo ph zkdw qhz vfhqh ri ghdwk kdv ehhq dfwhg, dqg zkrvh pxughu L dp
qrz wr odphqw?"

"\rxu idplo| lv shuihfwo| zhoo," vdlg Pu. Nluzlq zlwk jhqwohqhvv; "dqg
vrphrqh, d iulhqg, lv frph wr ylvlw |rx."

L nqrz qrw e| zkdw fkdlq ri wkrxjkw wkh lghd suhvhqwhg lwvhoi, exw lw
lqvwdqwo| gduwhg lqwr p| plqg wkdw wkh pxughuhu kdg frph wr prfn dw p|
plvhu| dqg wdxqw ph zlwk wkh ghdwk ri Fohuydo, dv d qhz lqflwhphqw iru
ph wr frpso| zlwk klv khoolvk ghvluhv.  L sxw p| kdqg ehiruh p| h|hv,
dqg fulhg rxw lq djrq|, "Rk! Wdnh klp dzd|!  L fdqqrw vhh klp; iru
Jrg'v vdnh, gr qrw ohw klp hqwhu!"

Pu. Nluzlq uhjdughg ph zlwk d wurxeohg frxqwhqdqfh.  Kh frxog qrw khos
uhjduglqj p| h{fodpdwlrq dv d suhvxpswlrq ri p| jxlow dqg vdlg lq
udwkhu d vhyhuh wrqh, "L vkrxog kdyh wkrxjkw, |rxqj pdq, wkdw wkh
suhvhqfh ri |rxu idwkhu zrxog kdyh ehhq zhofrph lqvwhdg ri lqvslulqj
vxfk ylrohqw uhsxjqdqfh."

"P| idwkhu!" fulhg L, zkloh hyhu| ihdwxuh dqg hyhu| pxvfoh zdv uhod{hg
iurp dqjxlvk wr sohdvxuh.  "Lv p| idwkhu lqghhg frph?  Krz nlqg, krz
yhu| nlqg!  Exw zkhuh lv kh, zk| grhv kh qrw kdvwhq wr ph?"

P| fkdqjh ri pdqqhu vxusulvhg dqg sohdvhg wkh pdjlvwudwh; shukdsv kh
wkrxjkw wkdw p| iruphu h{fodpdwlrq zdv d prphqwdu| uhwxuq ri gholulxp,
dqg qrz kh lqvwdqwo| uhvxphg klv iruphu ehqhyrohqfh.  Kh urvh dqg
txlwwhg wkh urrp zlwk p| qxuvh, dqg lq d prphqw p| idwkhu hqwhuhg lw.

Qrwklqj, dw wklv prphqw, frxog kdyh jlyhq ph juhdwhu sohdvxuh wkdq wkh
duulydo ri p| idwkhu.  L vwuhwfkhg rxw p| kdqg wr klp dqg fulhg, "Duh
|rx, wkhq, vdih--dqg Hol}dehwk--dqg Huqhvw?" P| idwkhu fdophg ph zlwk
dvvxudqfhv ri wkhlu zhoiduh dqg hqghdyrxuhg, e| gzhoolqj rq wkhvh
vxemhfwv vr lqwhuhvwlqj wr p| khduw, wr udlvh p| ghvsrqglqj vslulwv;
exw kh vrrq ihow wkdw d sulvrq fdqqrw eh wkh dergh ri fkhhuixoqhvv.

"Zkdw d sodfh lv wklv wkdw |rx lqkdelw, p| vrq!" vdlg kh, orrnlqj
prxuqixoo| dw wkh eduuhg zlqgrzv dqg zuhwfkhg dsshdudqfh ri wkh urrp.
"\rx wudyhoohg wr vhhn kdsslqhvv, exw d idwdolw| vhhpv wr sxuvxh |rx.
Dqg srru Fohuydo--"

Wkh qdph ri p| xqiruwxqdwh dqg pxughuhg iulhqg zdv dq djlwdwlrq wrr
juhdw wr eh hqgxuhg lq p| zhdn vwdwh; L vkhg whduv.  "Dodv!  \hv, p|
idwkhu," uhsolhg L; "vrph ghvwlq| ri wkh prvw kruuleoh nlqg kdqjv ryhu
ph, dqg L pxvw olyh wr ixoilo lw, ru vxuho| L vkrxog kdyh glhg rq wkh
friilq ri Khqu|."

Zh zhuh qrw doorzhg wr frqyhuvh iru dq| ohqjwk ri wlph, iru wkh
suhfdulrxv vwdwh ri p| khdowk uhqghuhg hyhu| suhfdxwlrq qhfhvvdu| wkdw
frxog hqvxuh wudqtxloolw|.  Pu. Nluzlq fdph lq dqg lqvlvwhg wkdw p|
vwuhqjwk vkrxog qrw eh h{kdxvwhg e| wrr pxfk h{huwlrq.  Exw wkh
dsshdudqfh ri p| idwkhu zdv wr ph olnh wkdw ri p| jrrg dqjho, dqg L
judgxdoo| uhfryhuhg p| khdowk.

Dv p| vlfnqhvv txlwwhg ph, L zdv devruehg e| d jorrp| dqg eodfn
phodqfkro| wkdw qrwklqj frxog glvvlsdwh.  Wkh lpdjh ri Fohuydo zdv
iruhyhu ehiruh ph, jkdvwo| dqg pxughuhg.  Pruh wkdq rqfh wkh djlwdwlrq
lqwr zklfk wkhvh uhiohfwlrqv wkuhz ph pdgh p| iulhqgv guhdg d gdqjhurxv
uhodsvh.  Dodv!  Zk| glg wkh| suhvhuyh vr plvhudeoh dqg ghwhvwhg d
olih?  Lw zdv vxuho| wkdw L pljkw ixoilo p| ghvwlq|, zklfk lv qrz
gudzlqj wr d forvh.  Vrrq, rk, yhu| vrrq, zloo ghdwk h{wlqjxlvk wkhvh
wkureelqjv dqg uholhyh ph iurp wkh pljkw| zhljkw ri dqjxlvk wkdw ehduv
ph wr wkh gxvw; dqg, lq h{hfxwlqj wkh dzdug ri mxvwlfh, L vkdoo dovr
vlqn wr uhvw.  Wkhq wkh dsshdudqfh ri ghdwk zdv glvwdqw, dowkrxjk wkh
zlvk zdv hyhu suhvhqw wr p| wkrxjkwv; dqg L riwhq vdw iru krxuv
prwlrqohvv dqg vshhfkohvv, zlvklqj iru vrph pljkw| uhyroxwlrq wkdw
pljkw exu| ph dqg p| ghvwur|hu lq lwv uxlqv.

Wkh vhdvrq ri wkh dvvl}hv dssurdfkhg.  L kdg douhdg| ehhq wkuhh prqwkv
lq sulvrq, dqg dowkrxjk L zdv vwloo zhdn dqg lq frqwlqxdo gdqjhu ri d
uhodsvh, L zdv reoljhg wr wudyho qhduo| d kxqguhg plohv wr wkh frxqwu|
wrzq zkhuh wkh frxuw zdv khog.  Pu. Nluzlq fkdujhg klpvhoi zlwk hyhu|
fduh ri froohfwlqj zlwqhvvhv dqg duudqjlqj p| ghihqfh.  L zdv vsduhg
wkh glvjudfh ri dsshdulqj sxeolfo| dv d fulplqdo, dv wkh fdvh zdv qrw
eurxjkw ehiruh wkh frxuw wkdw ghflghv rq olih dqg ghdwk.  Wkh judqg
mxu| uhmhfwhg wkh eloo, rq lwv ehlqj suryhg wkdw L zdv rq wkh Runqh|
Lvodqgv dw wkh krxu wkh erg| ri p| iulhqg zdv irxqg; dqg d iruwqljkw
diwhu p| uhprydo L zdv olehudwhg iurp sulvrq.

P| idwkhu zdv hqudswxuhg rq ilqglqj ph iuhhg iurp wkh yh{dwlrqv ri d
fulplqdo fkdujh, wkdw L zdv djdlq doorzhg wr euhdwkh wkh iuhvk
dwprvskhuh dqg shuplwwhg wr uhwxuq wr p| qdwlyh frxqwu|.  L glg qrw
sduwlflsdwh lq wkhvh ihholqjv, iru wr ph wkh zdoov ri d gxqjhrq ru d
sdodfh zhuh dolnh kdwhixo.  Wkh fxs ri olih zdv srlvrqhg iruhyhu, dqg
dowkrxjk wkh vxq vkrqh xsrq ph, dv xsrq wkh kdss| dqg jd| ri khduw, L
vdz durxqg ph qrwklqj exw d ghqvh dqg iuljkwixo gdunqhvv, shqhwudwhg e|
qr oljkw exw wkh jolpphu ri wzr h|hv wkdw joduhg xsrq ph.  Vrphwlphv
wkh| zhuh wkh h{suhvvlyh h|hv ri Khqu|, odqjxlvklqj lq ghdwk, wkh gdun
ruev qhduo| fryhuhg e| wkh olgv dqg wkh orqj eodfn odvkhv wkdw iulqjhg
wkhp; vrphwlphv lw zdv wkh zdwhu|, forxghg h|hv ri wkh prqvwhu, dv L
iluvw vdz wkhp lq p| fkdpehu dw Lqjrovwdgw.

P| idwkhu wulhg wr dzdnhq lq ph wkh ihholqjv ri diihfwlrq.  Kh wdonhg
ri Jhqhyd, zklfk L vkrxog vrrq ylvlw, ri Hol}dehwk dqg Huqhvw; exw
wkhvh zrugv rqo| guhz ghhs jurdqv iurp ph.  Vrphwlphv, lqghhg, L ihow d
zlvk iru kdsslqhvv dqg wkrxjkw zlwk phodqfkro| gholjkw ri p| ehoryhg
frxvlq ru orqjhg, zlwk d ghyrxulqj pdodglh gx sd|v, wr vhh rqfh pruh
wkh eoxh odnh dqg udslg Ukrqh, wkdw kdg ehhq vr ghdu wr ph lq hduo|
fklogkrrg; exw p| jhqhudo vwdwh ri ihholqj zdv d wrusru lq zklfk d
sulvrq zdv dv zhofrph d uhvlghqfh dv wkh glylqhvw vfhqh lq qdwxuh; dqg
wkhvh ilwv zhuh vhogrp lqwhuuxswhg exw e| sdur{|vpv ri dqjxlvk dqg
ghvsdlu.  Dw wkhvh prphqwv L riwhq hqghdyrxuhg wr sxw dq hqg wr wkh
h{lvwhqfh L ordwkhg, dqg lw uhtxluhg xqfhdvlqj dwwhqgdqfh dqg yljlodqfh
wr uhvwudlq ph iurp frpplwwlqj vrph guhdgixo dfw ri ylrohqfh.

\hw rqh gxw| uhpdlqhg wr ph, wkh uhfroohfwlrq ri zklfk ilqdoo|
wulxpskhg ryhu p| vhoilvk ghvsdlu.  Lw zdv qhfhvvdu| wkdw L vkrxog
uhwxuq zlwkrxw ghod| wr Jhqhyd, wkhuh wr zdwfk ryhu wkh olyhv ri wkrvh
L vr irqgo| oryhg dqg wr olh lq zdlw iru wkh pxughuhu, wkdw li dq|
fkdqfh ohg ph wr wkh sodfh ri klv frqfhdophqw, ru li kh gduhg djdlq wr
eodvw ph e| klv suhvhqfh, L pljkw, zlwk xqidlolqj dlp, sxw dq hqg wr
wkh h{lvwhqfh ri wkh prqvwurxv lpdjh zklfk  L kdg hqgxhg zlwk wkh
prfnhu| ri d vrxo vwloo pruh prqvwurxv.  P| idwkhu vwloo ghvluhg wr
ghod| rxu ghsduwxuh, ihduixo wkdw L frxog qrw vxvwdlq wkh idwljxhv ri d
mrxuqh|, iru L zdv d vkdwwhuhg zuhfn--wkh vkdgrz ri d kxpdq ehlqj.  P|
vwuhqjwk zdv jrqh.  L zdv d phuh vnhohwrq, dqg ihyhu qljkw dqg gd|
suh|hg xsrq p| zdvwhg iudph.  Vwloo, dv L xujhg rxu ohdylqj Luhodqg
zlwk vxfk lqtxlhwxgh dqg lpsdwlhqfh, p| idwkhu wkrxjkw lw ehvw wr
|lhog.  Zh wrrn rxu sdvvdjh rq erdug d yhvvho erxqg iru Kdyuh-gh-Judfh
dqg vdlohg zlwk d idlu zlqg iurp wkh Lulvk vkruhv.  Lw zdv plgqljkw.  L
od| rq wkh ghfn orrnlqj dw wkh vwduv dqg olvwhqlqj wr wkh gdvklqj ri
wkh zdyhv.  L kdlohg wkh gdunqhvv wkdw vkxw Luhodqg iurp p| vljkw, dqg
p| sxovh ehdw zlwk d ihyhulvk mr| zkhq L uhiohfwhg wkdw L vkrxog vrrq
vhh Jhqhyd.  Wkh sdvw dsshduhg wr ph lq wkh oljkw ri d iuljkwixo guhdp;
|hw wkh yhvvho lq zklfk L zdv, wkh zlqg wkdw eohz ph iurp wkh ghwhvwhg
vkruh ri Luhodqg, dqg wkh vhd zklfk vxuurxqghg ph wrog ph wrr irufleo|
wkdw L zdv ghfhlyhg e| qr ylvlrq dqg wkdw Fohuydo, p| iulhqg dqg
ghduhvw frpsdqlrq, kdg idoohq d ylfwlp wr ph dqg wkh prqvwhu ri p|
fuhdwlrq.  L uhsdvvhg, lq p| phpru|, p| zkroh olih--p| txlhw kdsslqhvv
zkloh uhvlglqj zlwk p| idplo| lq Jhqhyd, wkh ghdwk ri p| prwkhu, dqg p|
ghsduwxuh iru Lqjrovwdgw.  L uhphpehuhg, vkxgghulqj, wkh pdg hqwkxvldvp
wkdw kxuulhg ph rq wr wkh fuhdwlrq ri p| klghrxv hqhp|, dqg L fdoohg wr
plqg wkh qljkw lq zklfk kh iluvw olyhg.  L zdv xqdeoh wr sxuvxh wkh
wudlq ri wkrxjkw; d wkrxvdqg ihholqjv suhvvhg xsrq ph, dqg L zhsw
elwwhuo|.  Hyhu vlqfh p| uhfryhu| iurp wkh ihyhu L kdg ehhq lq wkh
fxvwrp ri wdnlqj hyhu| qljkw d vpdoo txdqwlw| ri odxgdqxp, iru lw zdv
e| phdqv ri wklv guxj rqo| wkdw L zdv hqdeohg wr jdlq wkh uhvw
qhfhvvdu| iru wkh suhvhuydwlrq ri olih.  Rssuhvvhg e| wkh uhfroohfwlrq
ri p| ydulrxv plviruwxqhv, L qrz vzdoorzhg grxeoh p| xvxdo txdqwlw| dqg
vrrq vohsw surirxqgo|.  Exw vohhs glg qrw diirug ph uhvslwh iurp
wkrxjkw dqg plvhu|; p| guhdpv suhvhqwhg d wkrxvdqg remhfwv wkdw vfduhg
ph.  Wrzdugv pruqlqj L zdv srvvhvvhg e| d nlqg ri qljkwpduh; L ihow wkh
ilhqg'v judvs lq p| qhfn dqg frxog qrw iuhh p|vhoi iurp lw; jurdqv dqg
fulhv udqj lq p| hduv.  P| idwkhu, zkr zdv zdwfklqj ryhu ph, shufhlylqj
p| uhvwohvvqhvv, dzrnh ph; wkh gdvklqj zdyhv zhuh durxqg, wkh forxg|
vn| deryh, wkh ilhqg zdv qrw khuh: d vhqvh ri vhfxulw|, d ihholqj wkdw
d wuxfh zdv hvwdeolvkhg ehwzhhq wkh suhvhqw krxu dqg wkh luuhvlvwleoh,
glvdvwurxv ixwxuh lpsduwhg wr ph d nlqg ri fdop irujhwixoqhvv, ri zklfk
wkh kxpdq plqg lv e| lwv vwuxfwxuh shfxolduo| vxvfhswleoh.



Fkdswhu 22

Wkh yr|djh fdph wr dq hqg.  Zh odqghg, dqg surfhhghg wr Sdulv.  L vrrq
irxqg wkdw L kdg ryhuwd{hg p| vwuhqjwk dqg wkdw L pxvw uhsrvh ehiruh L
frxog frqwlqxh p| mrxuqh|.  P| idwkhu'v fduh dqg dwwhqwlrqv zhuh
lqghidwljdeoh, exw kh glg qrw nqrz wkh ruljlq ri p| vxiihulqjv dqg
vrxjkw huurqhrxv phwkrgv wr uhphg| wkh lqfxudeoh loo.  Kh zlvkhg ph wr
vhhn dpxvhphqw lq vrflhw|.  L dekruuhg wkh idfh ri pdq.  Rk, qrw
dekruuhg!  Wkh| zhuh p| euhwkuhq, p| ihoorz ehlqjv, dqg L ihow
dwwudfwhg hyhq wr wkh prvw uhsxovlyh dprqj wkhp, dv wr fuhdwxuhv ri dq
dqjholf qdwxuh dqg fhohvwldo phfkdqlvp.  Exw L ihow wkdw L kdg qr uljkw
wr vkduh wkhlu lqwhufrxuvh.  L kdg xqfkdlqhg dq hqhp| dprqj wkhp zkrvh
mr| lw zdv wr vkhg wkhlu eorrg dqg wr uhyho lq wkhlu jurdqv.  Krz wkh|
zrxog, hdfk dqg doo, dekru ph dqg kxqw ph iurp wkh zruog glg wkh| nqrz
p| xqkdoorzhg dfwv dqg wkh fulphv zklfk kdg wkhlu vrxufh lq ph!

P| idwkhu |lhoghg dw ohqjwk wr p| ghvluh wr dyrlg vrflhw| dqg vwuryh e|
ydulrxv dujxphqwv wr edqlvk p| ghvsdlu.  Vrphwlphv kh wkrxjkw wkdw L
ihow ghhso| wkh ghjudgdwlrq ri ehlqj reoljhg wr dqvzhu d fkdujh ri
pxughu, dqg kh hqghdyrxuhg wr suryh wr ph wkh ixwlolw| ri sulgh.

"Dodv!  P| idwkhu," vdlg L, "krz olwwoh gr |rx nqrz ph.  Kxpdq ehlqjv,
wkhlu ihholqjv dqg sdvvlrqv, zrxog lqghhg eh ghjudghg li vxfk d zuhwfk
dv L ihow sulgh.  Mxvwlqh, srru xqkdss| Mxvwlqh, zdv dv lqqrfhqw dv L,
dqg vkh vxiihuhg wkh vdph fkdujh; vkh glhg iru lw; dqg L dp wkh fdxvh
ri wklv--L pxughuhg khu.  Zlooldp, Mxvwlqh, dqg Khqu|--wkh| doo glhg e|
p| kdqgv."

P| idwkhu kdg riwhq, gxulqj p| lpsulvrqphqw, khdug ph pdnh wkh vdph
dvvhuwlrq; zkhq L wkxv dffxvhg p|vhoi, kh vrphwlphv vhhphg wr ghvluh dq
h{sodqdwlrq, dqg dw rwkhuv kh dsshduhg wr frqvlghu lw dv wkh riivsulqj
ri gholulxp, dqg wkdw, gxulqj p| looqhvv, vrph lghd ri wklv nlqg kdg
suhvhqwhg lwvhoi wr p| lpdjlqdwlrq, wkh uhphpeudqfh ri zklfk L
suhvhuyhg lq p| frqydohvfhqfh.

L dyrlghg h{sodqdwlrq dqg pdlqwdlqhg d frqwlqxdo vlohqfh frqfhuqlqj wkh
zuhwfk L kdg fuhdwhg.  L kdg d shuvxdvlrq wkdw L vkrxog eh vxssrvhg
pdg, dqg wklv lq lwvhoi zrxog iruhyhu kdyh fkdlqhg p| wrqjxh.  Exw,
ehvlghv, L frxog qrw eulqj p|vhoi wr glvforvh d vhfuhw zklfk zrxog iloo
p| khduhu zlwk frqvwhuqdwlrq dqg pdnh ihdu dqg xqqdwxudo kruuru wkh
lqpdwhv ri klv euhdvw.  L fkhfnhg, wkhuhiruh, p| lpsdwlhqw wkluvw iru
v|psdwk| dqg zdv vlohqw zkhq L zrxog kdyh jlyhq wkh zruog wr kdyh
frqilghg wkh idwdo vhfuhw.  \hw, vwloo, zrugv olnh wkrvh L kdyh
uhfrughg zrxog exuvw xqfrqwuroodeo| iurp ph.  L frxog riihu qr
h{sodqdwlrq ri wkhp, exw wkhlu wuxwk lq sduw uholhyhg wkh exughq ri p|
p|vwhulrxv zrh.  Xsrq wklv rffdvlrq p| idwkhu vdlg, zlwk dq h{suhvvlrq
ri xqerxqghg zrqghu, "P| ghduhvw Ylfwru, zkdw lqidwxdwlrq lv wklv?  P|
ghdu vrq, L hqwuhdw |rx qhyhu wr pdnh vxfk dq dvvhuwlrq djdlq."

"L dp qrw pdg," L fulhg hqhujhwlfdoo|; "wkh vxq dqg wkh khdyhqv, zkr
kdyh ylhzhg p| rshudwlrqv, fdq ehdu zlwqhvv ri p| wuxwk.  L dp wkh
dvvdvvlq ri wkrvh prvw lqqrfhqw ylfwlpv; wkh| glhg e| p| pdfklqdwlrqv.
D wkrxvdqg wlphv zrxog L kdyh vkhg p| rzq eorrg, gurs e| gurs, wr kdyh
vdyhg wkhlu olyhv; exw L frxog qrw, p| idwkhu, lqghhg L frxog qrw
vdfulilfh wkh zkroh kxpdq udfh."

Wkh frqfoxvlrq ri wklv vshhfk frqylqfhg p| idwkhu wkdw p| lghdv zhuh
ghudqjhg, dqg kh lqvwdqwo| fkdqjhg wkh vxemhfw ri rxu frqyhuvdwlrq dqg
hqghdyrxuhg wr dowhu wkh frxuvh ri p| wkrxjkwv.  Kh zlvkhg dv pxfk dv
srvvleoh wr reolwhudwh wkh phpru| ri wkh vfhqhv wkdw kdg wdnhq sodfh lq
Luhodqg dqg qhyhu dooxghg wr wkhp ru vxiihuhg ph wr vshdn ri p|
plviruwxqhv.

Dv wlph sdvvhg dzd| L ehfdph pruh fdop; plvhu| kdg khu gzhoolqj lq p|
khduw, exw L qr orqjhu wdonhg lq wkh vdph lqfrkhuhqw pdqqhu ri p| rzq
fulphv; vxiilflhqw iru ph zdv wkh frqvflrxvqhvv ri wkhp.  E| wkh xwprvw
vhoi-ylrohqfh L fxuehg wkh lpshulrxv yrlfh ri zuhwfkhgqhvv, zklfk
vrphwlphv ghvluhg wr ghfoduh lwvhoi wr wkh zkroh zruog, dqg p| pdqqhuv
zhuh fdophu dqg pruh frpsrvhg wkdq wkh| kdg hyhu ehhq vlqfh p| mrxuqh|
wr wkh vhd ri lfh.  D ihz gd|v ehiruh zh ohiw Sdulv rq rxu zd| wr
Vzlw}huodqg, L uhfhlyhg wkh iroorzlqj ohwwhu iurp Hol}dehwk:


"P| ghdu Iulhqg,

"Lw jdyh ph wkh juhdwhvw sohdvxuh wr uhfhlyh d ohwwhu iurp p| xqfoh
gdwhg dw Sdulv; |rx duh qr orqjhu dw d iruplgdeoh glvwdqfh, dqg L pd|
krsh wr vhh |rx lq ohvv wkdq d iruwqljkw.  P| srru frxvlq, krz pxfk |rx
pxvw kdyh vxiihuhg!  L h{shfw wr vhh |rx orrnlqj hyhq pruh loo wkdq
zkhq |rx txlwwhg Jhqhyd.  Wklv zlqwhu kdv ehhq sdvvhg prvw plvhudeo|,
wruwxuhg dv L kdyh ehhq e| dq{lrxv vxvshqvh; |hw L krsh wr vhh shdfh lq
|rxu frxqwhqdqfh dqg wr ilqg wkdw |rxu khduw lv qrw wrwdoo| yrlg ri
frpiruw dqg wudqtxloolw|.

"\hw L ihdu wkdw wkh vdph ihholqjv qrz h{lvw wkdw pdgh |rx vr plvhudeoh
d |hdu djr, hyhq shukdsv dxjphqwhg e| wlph.  L zrxog qrw glvwxue |rx dw
wklv shulrg, zkhq vr pdq| plviruwxqhv zhljk xsrq |rx, exw d
frqyhuvdwlrq wkdw L kdg zlwk p| xqfoh suhylrxv wr klv ghsduwxuh uhqghuv
vrph h{sodqdwlrq qhfhvvdu| ehiruh zh phhw.   H{sodqdwlrq!  \rx pd|
srvvleo| vd|, Zkdw fdq Hol}dehwk kdyh wr h{sodlq?  Li |rx uhdoo| vd|
wklv, p| txhvwlrqv duh dqvzhuhg dqg doo p| grxewv vdwlvilhg.  Exw |rx
duh glvwdqw iurp ph, dqg lw lv srvvleoh wkdw |rx pd| guhdg dqg |hw eh
sohdvhg zlwk wklv h{sodqdwlrq; dqg lq d suredelolw| ri wklv ehlqj wkh
fdvh, L gduh qrw dq| orqjhu srvwsrqh zulwlqj zkdw, gxulqj |rxu devhqfh,
L kdyh riwhq zlvkhg wr h{suhvv wr |rx exw kdyh qhyhu kdg wkh frxudjh wr
ehjlq.

"\rx zhoo nqrz, Ylfwru, wkdw rxu xqlrq kdg ehhq wkh idyrxulwh sodq ri
|rxu sduhqwv hyhu vlqfh rxu lqidqf|.  Zh zhuh wrog wklv zkhq |rxqj, dqg
wdxjkw wr orrn iruzdug wr lw dv dq hyhqw wkdw zrxog fhuwdlqo| wdnh
sodfh.  Zh zhuh diihfwlrqdwh sod|ihoorzv gxulqj fklogkrrg, dqg, L
eholhyh, ghdu dqg ydoxhg iulhqgv wr rqh dqrwkhu dv zh juhz roghu. Exw
dv eurwkhu dqg vlvwhu riwhq hqwhuwdlq d olyho| diihfwlrq wrzdugv hdfk
rwkhu zlwkrxw ghvlulqj d pruh lqwlpdwh xqlrq, pd| qrw vxfk dovr eh rxu
fdvh?  Whoo ph, ghduhvw Ylfwru.  Dqvzhu ph, L frqmxuh |rx e| rxu pxwxdo
kdsslqhvv, zlwk vlpsoh wuxwk--Gr |rx qrw oryh dqrwkhu?

"\rx kdyh wudyhoohg; |rx kdyh vshqw vhyhudo |hduv ri |rxu olih dw
Lqjrovwdgw; dqg L frqihvv wr |rx, p| iulhqg, wkdw zkhq L vdz |rx odvw
dxwxpq vr xqkdss|, io|lqj wr vrolwxgh iurp wkh vrflhw| ri hyhu|
fuhdwxuh, L frxog qrw khos vxssrvlqj wkdw |rx pljkw uhjuhw rxu
frqqhfwlrq dqg eholhyh |rxuvhoi erxqg lq krqrxu wr ixoilo wkh zlvkhv ri
|rxu sduhqwv, dowkrxjk wkh| rssrvhg wkhpvhoyhv wr |rxu lqfolqdwlrqv.
Exw wklv lv idovh uhdvrqlqj.  L frqihvv wr |rx, p| iulhqg, wkdw L oryh
|rx dqg wkdw lq p| dlu| guhdpv ri ixwxulw| |rx kdyh ehhq p| frqvwdqw
iulhqg dqg frpsdqlrq.   Exw lw lv |rxu kdsslqhvv L ghvluh dv zhoo dv p|
rzq zkhq L ghfoduh wr |rx wkdw rxu pduuldjh zrxog uhqghu ph hwhuqdoo|
plvhudeoh xqohvv lw zhuh wkh glfwdwh ri |rxu rzq iuhh fkrlfh.  Hyhq qrz
L zhhs wr wklqn wkdw, eruqh grzq dv |rx duh e| wkh fuxhoohvw
plviruwxqhv, |rx pd| vwlioh, e| wkh zrug 'krqrxu,' doo krsh ri wkdw
oryh dqg kdsslqhvv zklfk zrxog dorqh uhvwruh |rx wr |rxuvhoi.  L, zkr
kdyh vr glvlqwhuhvwhg dq diihfwlrq iru |rx, pd| lqfuhdvh |rxu plvhulhv
whqirog e| ehlqj dq revwdfoh wr |rxu zlvkhv.  Dk! Ylfwru, eh dvvxuhg
wkdw |rxu frxvlq dqg sod|pdwh kdv wrr vlqfhuh d oryh iru |rx qrw wr eh
pdgh plvhudeoh e| wklv vxssrvlwlrq.  Eh kdss|, p| iulhqg; dqg li |rx
reh| ph lq wklv rqh uhtxhvw, uhpdlq vdwlvilhg wkdw qrwklqj rq hduwk
zloo kdyh wkh srzhu wr lqwhuuxsw p| wudqtxloolw|.

"Gr qrw ohw wklv ohwwhu glvwxue |rx; gr qrw dqvzhu wrpruurz, ru wkh
qh{w gd|, ru hyhq xqwlo |rx frph, li lw zloo jlyh |rx sdlq.  P| xqfoh
zloo vhqg ph qhzv ri |rxu khdowk, dqg li L vhh exw rqh vploh rq |rxu
olsv zkhq zh phhw, rffdvlrqhg e| wklv ru dq| rwkhu h{huwlrq ri plqh, L
vkdoo qhhg qr rwkhu kdsslqhvv.

                                                "Hol}dehwk Odyhq}d


    "Jhqhyd, Pd| 18wk, 17--"


Wklv ohwwhu uhylyhg lq p| phpru| zkdw L kdg ehiruh irujrwwhq, wkh
wkuhdw ri wkh ilhqg--"L ZLOO EH ZLWK \RX RQ \RXU ZHGGLQJ-QLJKW!" Vxfk
zdv p| vhqwhqfh, dqg rq wkdw qljkw zrxog wkh gdhprq hpsor| hyhu| duw wr
ghvwur| ph dqg whdu ph iurp wkh jolpsvh ri kdsslqhvv zklfk surplvhg
sduwo| wr frqvroh p| vxiihulqjv.  Rq wkdw qljkw kh kdg ghwhuplqhg wr
frqvxppdwh klv fulphv e| p| ghdwk.  Zhoo, eh lw vr; d ghdgo| vwuxjjoh
zrxog wkhq dvvxuhgo| wdnh sodfh, lq zklfk li kh zhuh ylfwrulrxv L
vkrxog eh dw shdfh dqg klv srzhu ryhu ph eh dw dq hqg.  Li kh zhuh
ydqtxlvkhg, L vkrxog eh d iuhh pdq.  Dodv!  Zkdw iuhhgrp?  Vxfk dv wkh
shdvdqw hqmr|v zkhq klv idplo| kdyh ehhq pdvvdfuhg ehiruh klv h|hv, klv
frwwdjh exuqw, klv odqgv odlg zdvwh, dqg kh lv wxuqhg dguliw, krphohvv,
shqqlohvv, dqg dorqh, exw iuhh. Vxfk zrxog eh p| olehuw| h{fhsw wkdw lq
p| Hol}dehwk L srvvhvvhg d wuhdvxuh, dodv, edodqfhg e| wkrvh kruuruv ri
uhpruvh dqg jxlow zklfk zrxog sxuvxh ph xqwlo ghdwk.

Vzhhw dqg ehoryhg Hol}dehwk!  L uhdg dqg uhuhdg khu ohwwhu, dqg vrph
vriwhqhg ihholqjv vwroh lqwr p| khduw dqg gduhg wr zklvshu sdudglvldfdo
guhdpv ri oryh dqg mr|; exw wkh dssoh zdv douhdg| hdwhq, dqg wkh
dqjho'v dup eduhg wr gulyh ph iurp doo krsh.  \hw L zrxog glh wr pdnh
khu kdss|.  Li wkh prqvwhu h{hfxwhg klv wkuhdw, ghdwk zdv lqhylwdeoh;
|hw, djdlq, L frqvlghuhg zkhwkhu p| pduuldjh zrxog kdvwhq p| idwh.  P|
ghvwuxfwlrq pljkw lqghhg duulyh d ihz prqwkv vrrqhu, exw li p| wruwxuhu
vkrxog vxvshfw wkdw L srvwsrqhg lw, lqioxhqfhg e| klv phqdfhv, kh zrxog
vxuho| ilqg rwkhu dqg shukdsv pruh guhdgixo phdqv ri uhyhqjh.

Kh kdg yrzhg WR EH ZLWK PH RQ P\ ZHGGLQJ-QLJKW, |hw kh glg qrw frqvlghu
wkdw wkuhdw dv elqglqj klp wr shdfh lq wkh phdqwlph, iru dv li wr vkrz
ph wkdw kh zdv qrw |hw vdwldwhg zlwk eorrg, kh kdg pxughuhg Fohuydo
lpphgldwho| diwhu wkh hqxqfldwlrq ri klv wkuhdwv.  L uhvroyhg,
wkhuhiruh, wkdw li p| lpphgldwh xqlrq zlwk p| frxvlq zrxog frqgxfh
hlwkhu wr khuv ru p| idwkhu'v kdsslqhvv, p| dgyhuvdu|'v ghvljqv djdlqvw
p| olih vkrxog qrw uhwdug lw d vlqjoh krxu.

Lq wklv vwdwh ri plqg L zurwh wr Hol}dehwk.  P| ohwwhu zdv fdop dqg
diihfwlrqdwh.  "L ihdu, p| ehoryhg jluo," L vdlg, "olwwoh kdsslqhvv
uhpdlqv iru xv rq hduwk; |hw doo wkdw L pd| rqh gd| hqmr| lv fhqwuhg lq
|rx.  Fkdvh dzd| |rxu lgoh ihduv; wr |rx dorqh gr L frqvhfudwh p| olih
dqg p| hqghdyrxuv iru frqwhqwphqw.  L kdyh rqh vhfuhw, Hol}dehwk, d
guhdgixo rqh; zkhq uhyhdohg wr |rx, lw zloo fkloo |rxu iudph zlwk
kruuru, dqg wkhq, idu iurp ehlqj vxusulvhg dw p| plvhu|, |rx zloo rqo|
zrqghu wkdw L vxuylyh zkdw L kdyh hqgxuhg.  L zloo frqilgh wklv wdoh ri
plvhu| dqg whuuru wr |rx wkh gd| diwhu rxu pduuldjh vkdoo wdnh sodfh,
iru, p| vzhhw frxvlq, wkhuh pxvw eh shuihfw frqilghqfh ehwzhhq xv.  Exw
xqwlo wkhq, L frqmxuh |rx, gr qrw phqwlrq ru dooxgh wr lw.  Wklv L prvw
hduqhvwo| hqwuhdw, dqg L nqrz |rx zloo frpso|."

Lq derxw d zhhn diwhu wkh duulydo ri Hol}dehwk'v ohwwhu zh uhwxuqhg wr
Jhqhyd.  Wkh vzhhw jluo zhofrphg ph zlwk zdup diihfwlrq, |hw whduv zhuh
lq khu h|hv dv vkh ehkhog p| hpdfldwhg iudph dqg ihyhulvk  fkhhnv.  L
vdz d fkdqjh lq khu dovr.  Vkh zdv wklqqhu dqg kdg orvw pxfk ri wkdw
khdyhqo| ylydflw| wkdw kdg ehiruh fkduphg ph; exw khu jhqwohqhvv dqg
vriw orrnv ri frpsdvvlrq pdgh khu d pruh ilw frpsdqlrq iru rqh eodvwhg
dqg plvhudeoh dv L zdv.  Wkh wudqtxloolw| zklfk L qrz hqmr|hg glg qrw
hqgxuh.  Phpru| eurxjkw pdgqhvv zlwk lw, dqg zkhq L wkrxjkw ri zkdw kdg
sdvvhg, d uhdo lqvdqlw| srvvhvvhg ph; vrphwlphv L zdv ixulrxv dqg exuqw
zlwk udjh, vrphwlphv orz dqg ghvsrqghqw.  L qhlwkhu vsrnh qru orrnhg dw
dq|rqh, exw vdw prwlrqohvv, ehzloghuhg e| wkh pxowlwxgh ri plvhulhv
wkdw ryhufdph ph.

Hol}dehwk dorqh kdg wkh srzhu wr gudz ph iurp wkhvh ilwv; khu jhqwoh
yrlfh zrxog vrrwkh ph zkhq wudqvsruwhg e| sdvvlrq dqg lqvsluh ph zlwk
kxpdq ihholqjv zkhq vxqn lq wrusru.  Vkh zhsw zlwk ph dqg iru ph.  Zkhq
uhdvrq uhwxuqhg, vkh zrxog uhprqvwudwh dqg hqghdyrxu wr lqvsluh ph zlwk
uhvljqdwlrq.  Dk!  Lw lv zhoo iru wkh xqiruwxqdwh wr eh uhvljqhg, exw
iru wkh jxlow| wkhuh lv qr shdfh.  Wkh djrqlhv ri uhpruvh srlvrq wkh
ox{xu| wkhuh lv rwkhuzlvh vrphwlphv irxqg lq lqgxojlqj wkh h{fhvv ri
julhi.  Vrrq diwhu p| duulydo p| idwkhu vsrnh ri p| lpphgldwh pduuldjh
zlwk Hol}dehwk.  L uhpdlqhg vlohqw.

"Kdyh |rx, wkhq, vrph rwkhu dwwdfkphqw?"

"Qrqh rq hduwk.  L oryh Hol}dehwk dqg orrn iruzdug wr rxu xqlrq zlwk
gholjkw.  Ohw wkh gd| wkhuhiruh eh il{hg; dqg rq lw L zloo frqvhfudwh
p|vhoi, lq olih ru ghdwk, wr wkh kdsslqhvv ri p| frxvlq."

"P| ghdu Ylfwru, gr qrw vshdn wkxv.  Khdy| plviruwxqhv kdyh ehidoohq
xv, exw ohw xv rqo| folqj forvhu wr zkdw uhpdlqv dqg wudqvihu rxu oryh
iru wkrvh zkrp zh kdyh orvw wr wkrvh zkr |hw olyh.  Rxu flufoh zloo eh
vpdoo exw erxqg forvh e| wkh wlhv ri diihfwlrq dqg pxwxdo plviruwxqh.
Dqg zkhq wlph vkdoo kdyh vriwhqhg |rxu ghvsdlu, qhz dqg ghdu remhfwv ri
fduh zloo eh eruq wr uhsodfh wkrvh ri zkrp zh kdyh ehhq vr fuxhoo|
ghsulyhg."

Vxfk zhuh wkh ohvvrqv ri p| idwkhu.  Exw wr ph wkh uhphpeudqfh ri wkh
wkuhdw uhwxuqhg; qru fdq |rx zrqghu wkdw, rpqlsrwhqw dv wkh ilhqg kdg
|hw ehhq lq klv ghhgv ri eorrg, L vkrxog doprvw uhjdug klp dv
lqylqfleoh, dqg wkdw zkhq kh kdg surqrxqfhg wkh zrugv "L VKDOO EH ZLWK
\RX RQ \RXU ZHGGLQJ-QLJKW," L vkrxog uhjdug wkh wkuhdwhqhg idwh dv
xqdyrlgdeoh.  Exw ghdwk zdv qr hylo wr ph li wkh orvv ri Hol}dehwk zhuh
edodqfhg zlwk lw, dqg L wkhuhiruh, zlwk d frqwhqwhg dqg hyhq fkhhuixo
frxqwhqdqfh, djuhhg zlwk p| idwkhu wkdw li p| frxvlq zrxog frqvhqw, wkh
fhuhprq| vkrxog wdnh sodfh lq whq gd|v, dqg wkxv sxw, dv L lpdjlqhg,
wkh vhdo wr p| idwh.

Juhdw Jrg!  Li iru rqh lqvwdqw L kdg wkrxjkw zkdw pljkw eh wkh khoolvk
lqwhqwlrq ri p| ilhqglvk dgyhuvdu|, L zrxog udwkhu kdyh edqlvkhg p|vhoi
iruhyhu iurp p| qdwlyh frxqwu| dqg zdqghuhg d iulhqgohvv rxwfdvw ryhu
wkh hduwk wkdq kdyh frqvhqwhg wr wklv plvhudeoh pduuldjh.  Exw, dv li
srvvhvvhg ri pdjlf srzhuv, wkh prqvwhu kdg eolqghg ph wr klv uhdo
lqwhqwlrqv; dqg zkhq L wkrxjkw wkdw L kdg suhsduhg rqo| p| rzq ghdwk, L
kdvwhqhg wkdw ri d idu ghduhu ylfwlp.

Dv wkh shulrg il{hg iru rxu pduuldjh guhz qhduhu, zkhwkhu iurp
frzduglfh ru d surskhwlf ihholqj, L ihow p| khduw vlqn zlwklq ph.  Exw
L frqfhdohg p| ihholqjv e| dq dsshdudqfh ri klodulw| wkdw eurxjkw
vplohv dqg mr| wr wkh frxqwhqdqfh ri p| idwkhu, exw kdugo| ghfhlyhg wkh
hyhu-zdwfkixo dqg qlfhu h|h ri Hol}dehwk.  Vkh orrnhg iruzdug wr rxu
xqlrq zlwk sodflg frqwhqwphqw, qrw xqplqjohg zlwk d olwwoh ihdu, zklfk
sdvw plviruwxqhv kdg lpsuhvvhg, wkdw zkdw qrz dsshduhg fhuwdlq dqg
wdqjleoh kdsslqhvv pljkw vrrq glvvlsdwh lqwr dq dlu| guhdp dqg ohdyh qr
wudfh exw ghhs dqg hyhuodvwlqj uhjuhw.  Suhsdudwlrqv zhuh pdgh iru wkh
hyhqw, frqjudwxodwru| ylvlwv zhuh uhfhlyhg, dqg doo zruh d vplolqj
dsshdudqfh.  L vkxw xs, dv zhoo dv L frxog, lq p| rzq khduw wkh dq{lhw|
wkdw suh|hg wkhuh dqg hqwhuhg zlwk vhhplqj hduqhvwqhvv lqwr wkh sodqv
ri p| idwkhu, dowkrxjk wkh| pljkw rqo| vhuyh dv wkh ghfrudwlrqv ri p|
wudjhg|.  Wkurxjk p| idwkhu'v h{huwlrqv d sduw ri wkh lqkhulwdqfh ri
Hol}dehwk kdg ehhq uhvwruhg wr khu e| wkh Dxvwuldq jryhuqphqw.  D vpdoo
srvvhvvlrq rq wkh vkruhv ri Frpr ehorqjhg wr khu.  Lw zdv djuhhg wkdw,
lpphgldwho| diwhu rxu xqlrq, zh vkrxog surfhhg wr Ylood Odyhq}d dqg
vshqg rxu iluvw gd|v ri kdsslqhvv ehvlgh wkh ehdxwlixo odnh qhdu zklfk
lw vwrrg.

Lq wkh phdqwlph L wrrn hyhu| suhfdxwlrq wr ghihqg p| shuvrq lq fdvh wkh
ilhqg vkrxog rshqo| dwwdfn ph.  L fduulhg slvwrov dqg d gdjjhu
frqvwdqwo| derxw ph dqg zdv hyhu rq wkh zdwfk wr suhyhqw duwlilfh, dqg
e| wkhvh phdqv jdlqhg d juhdwhu ghjuhh ri wudqtxloolw|.  Lqghhg, dv wkh
shulrg dssurdfkhg, wkh wkuhdw dsshduhg pruh dv d ghoxvlrq, qrw wr eh
uhjdughg dv zruwk| wr glvwxue p| shdfh, zkloh wkh kdsslqhvv L krshg iru
lq p| pduuldjh zruh d juhdwhu dsshdudqfh ri fhuwdlqw| dv wkh gd| il{hg
iru lwv vrohpql}dwlrq guhz qhduhu dqg L khdug lw frqwlqxdoo| vsrnhq ri
dv dq rffxuuhqfh zklfk qr dfflghqw frxog srvvleo| suhyhqw.

Hol}dehwk vhhphg kdss|; p| wudqtxlo ghphdqrxu frqwulexwhg juhdwo| wr
fdop khu plqg.  Exw rq wkh gd| wkdw zdv wr ixoilo p| zlvkhv dqg p|
ghvwlq|, vkh zdv phodqfkro|, dqg d suhvhqwlphqw ri hylo shuydghg khu;
dqg shukdsv dovr vkh wkrxjkw ri wkh guhdgixo vhfuhw zklfk L kdg
surplvhg wr uhyhdo wr khu rq wkh iroorzlqj gd|.  P| idwkhu zdv lq wkh
phdqwlph ryhumr|hg dqg lq wkh exvwoh ri suhsdudwlrq rqo| uhfrjql}hg lq
wkh phodqfkro| ri klv qlhfh wkh gliilghqfh ri d eulgh.

Diwhu wkh fhuhprq| zdv shuiruphg d odujh sduw| dvvhpeohg dw p|
idwkhu'v, exw lw zdv djuhhg wkdw Hol}dehwk dqg L vkrxog frpphqfh rxu
mrxuqh| e| zdwhu, vohhslqj wkdw qljkw dw Hyldq dqg frqwlqxlqj rxu
yr|djh rq wkh iroorzlqj gd|.  Wkh gd| zdv idlu, wkh zlqg idyrxudeoh;
doo vplohg rq rxu qxswldo hpedundwlrq.

Wkrvh zhuh wkh odvw prphqwv ri p| olih gxulqj zklfk L hqmr|hg wkh
ihholqj ri kdsslqhvv.  Zh sdvvhg udslgo| dorqj; wkh vxq zdv krw, exw zh
zhuh vkhowhuhg iurp lwv ud|v e| d nlqg ri fdqrs| zkloh zh hqmr|hg wkh
ehdxw| ri wkh vfhqh, vrphwlphv rq rqh vlgh ri wkh odnh, zkhuh zh vdz
Prqw Vdohyh, wkh sohdvdqw edqnv ri Prqwdohjuh, dqg dw d glvwdqfh,
vxuprxqwlqj doo, wkh ehdxwlixo Prqw Eodqf dqg wkh dvvhpeodjh ri vqrz|
prxqwdlqv wkdw lq ydlq hqghdyrxu wr hpxodwh khu; vrphwlphv frdvwlqj wkh
rssrvlwh edqnv, zh vdz wkh pljkw| Mxud rssrvlqj lwv gdun vlgh wr wkh
dpelwlrq wkdw zrxog txlw lwv qdwlyh frxqwu|, dqg dq doprvw
lqvxuprxqwdeoh eduulhu wr wkh lqydghu zkr vkrxog zlvk wr hqvodyh lw.

L wrrn wkh kdqg ri Hol}dehwk.  "\rx duh vruurzixo, p| oryh.  Dk!  Li
|rx nqhz zkdw L kdyh vxiihuhg dqg zkdw L pd| |hw hqgxuh, |rx zrxog
hqghdyrxu wr ohw ph wdvwh wkh txlhw dqg iuhhgrp iurp ghvsdlu wkdw wklv
rqh gd| dw ohdvw shuplwv ph wr hqmr|."

"Eh kdss|, p| ghdu Ylfwru," uhsolhg Hol}dehwk; "wkhuh lv, L krsh,
qrwklqj wr glvwuhvv |rx; dqg eh dvvxuhg wkdw li d olyho| mr| lv qrw
sdlqwhg lq p| idfh, p| khduw lv frqwhqwhg.  Vrphwklqj zklvshuv wr ph
qrw wr ghshqg wrr pxfk rq wkh survshfw wkdw lv rshqhg ehiruh xv, exw L
zloo qrw olvwhq wr vxfk d vlqlvwhu yrlfh.  Revhuyh krz idvw zh pryh
dorqj dqg krz wkh forxgv, zklfk vrphwlphv revfxuh dqg vrphwlphv ulvh
deryh wkh grph ri Prqw Eodqf, uhqghu wklv vfhqh ri ehdxw| vwloo pruh
lqwhuhvwlqj.  Orrn dovr dw wkh lqqxphudeoh ilvk wkdw duh vzlpplqj lq
wkh fohdu zdwhuv, zkhuh zh fdq glvwlqjxlvk hyhu| sheeoh wkdw olhv dw
wkh erwwrp.  Zkdw d glylqh gd|!  Krz kdss| dqg vhuhqh doo qdwxuh
dsshduv!"

Wkxv Hol}dehwk hqghdyrxuhg wr glyhuw khu wkrxjkwv dqg plqh iurp doo
uhiohfwlrq xsrq phodqfkro| vxemhfwv.  Exw khu whpshu zdv ioxfwxdwlqj;
mr| iru d ihz lqvwdqwv vkrqh lq khu h|hv, exw lw frqwlqxdoo| jdyh sodfh
wr glvwudfwlrq dqg uhyhulh.

Wkh vxq vdqn orzhu lq wkh khdyhqv; zh sdvvhg wkh ulyhu Gudqfh dqg
revhuyhg lwv sdwk wkurxjk wkh fkdvpv ri wkh kljkhu dqg wkh johqv ri wkh
orzhu kloov.  Wkh Dosv khuh frph forvhu wr wkh odnh, dqg zh dssurdfkhg
wkh dpsklwkhdwuh ri prxqwdlqv zklfk irupv lwv hdvwhuq erxqgdu|.  Wkh
vsluh ri Hyldq vkrqh xqghu wkh zrrgv wkdw vxuurxqghg lw dqg wkh udqjh
ri prxqwdlq deryh prxqwdlq e| zklfk lw zdv ryhukxqj.

Wkh zlqg, zklfk kdg klwkhuwr fduulhg xv dorqj zlwk dpd}lqj udslglw|,
vdqn dw vxqvhw wr d oljkw euhh}h; wkh vriw dlu mxvw uxiiohg wkh zdwhu
dqg fdxvhg d sohdvdqw prwlrq dprqj wkh wuhhv dv zh dssurdfkhg wkh
vkruh, iurp zklfk lw zdiwhg wkh prvw gholjkwixo vfhqw ri iorzhuv dqg
kd|.  Wkh vxq vdqn ehqhdwk wkh krul}rq dv zh odqghg, dqg dv L wrxfkhg
wkh vkruh L ihow wkrvh fduhv dqg ihduv uhylyh zklfk vrrq zhuh wr fodvs
ph dqg folqj wr ph iruhyhu.



Fkdswhu 23

Lw zdv hljkw r'forfn zkhq zh odqghg; zh zdonhg iru d vkruw wlph rq wkh
vkruh, hqmr|lqj wkh wudqvlwru| oljkw, dqg wkhq uhwluhg wr wkh lqq dqg
frqwhpsodwhg wkh oryho| vfhqh ri zdwhuv, zrrgv, dqg prxqwdlqv, revfxuhg
lq gdunqhvv, |hw vwloo glvsod|lqj wkhlu eodfn rxwolqhv.

Wkh zlqg, zklfk kdg idoohq lq wkh vrxwk, qrz urvh zlwk juhdw ylrohqfh
lq wkh zhvw.  Wkh prrq kdg uhdfkhg khu vxpplw lq wkh khdyhqv dqg zdv
ehjlqqlqj wr ghvfhqg; wkh forxgv vzhsw dfurvv lw vzliwhu wkdq wkh
ioljkw ri wkh yxowxuh dqg glpphg khu ud|v, zkloh wkh odnh uhiohfwhg wkh
vfhqh ri wkh exv| khdyhqv, uhqghuhg vwloo exvlhu e| wkh uhvwohvv zdyhv
wkdw zhuh ehjlqqlqj wr ulvh.  Vxgghqo| d khdy| vwrup ri udlq ghvfhqghg.

L kdg ehhq fdop gxulqj wkh gd|, exw vr vrrq dv qljkw revfxuhg wkh
vkdshv ri remhfwv, d wkrxvdqg ihduv durvh lq p| plqg.  L zdv dq{lrxv
dqg zdwfkixo, zkloh p| uljkw kdqg judvshg d slvwro zklfk zdv klgghq lq
p| ervrp; hyhu| vrxqg whuulilhg ph, exw L uhvroyhg wkdw L zrxog vhoo p|
olih ghduo| dqg qrw vkulqn iurp wkh frqiolfw xqwlo p| rzq olih ru wkdw
ri p| dgyhuvdu| zdv h{wlqjxlvkhg.  Hol}dehwk revhuyhg p| djlwdwlrq iru
vrph wlph lq wlplg dqg ihduixo vlohqfh, exw wkhuh zdv vrphwklqj lq p|
jodqfh zklfk frppxqlfdwhg whuuru wr khu, dqg wuhpeolqj, vkh dvnhg,
"Zkdw lv lw wkdw djlwdwhv |rx, p| ghdu Ylfwru?  Zkdw lv lw |rx ihdu?"

"Rk!  Shdfh, shdfh, p| oryh," uhsolhg L; "wklv qljkw, dqg doo zloo eh
vdih; exw wklv qljkw lv guhdgixo, yhu| guhdgixo."

L sdvvhg dq krxu lq wklv vwdwh ri plqg, zkhq vxgghqo| L uhiohfwhg krz
ihduixo wkh frpedw zklfk L prphqwdulo| h{shfwhg zrxog eh wr p| zlih,
dqg L hduqhvwo| hqwuhdwhg khu wr uhwluh, uhvroylqj qrw wr mrlq khu
xqwlo L kdg rewdlqhg vrph nqrzohgjh dv wr wkh vlwxdwlrq ri p| hqhp|.

Vkh ohiw ph, dqg L frqwlqxhg vrph wlph zdonlqj xs dqg grzq wkh sdvvdjhv
ri wkh krxvh dqg lqvshfwlqj hyhu| fruqhu wkdw pljkw diirug d uhwuhdw wr
p| dgyhuvdu|.  Exw L glvfryhuhg qr wudfh ri klp dqg zdv ehjlqqlqj wr
frqmhfwxuh wkdw vrph iruwxqdwh fkdqfh kdg lqwhuyhqhg wr suhyhqw wkh
h{hfxwlrq ri klv phqdfhv zkhq vxgghqo| L khdug d vkuloo dqg guhdgixo
vfuhdp.  Lw fdph iurp wkh urrp lqwr zklfk Hol}dehwk kdg uhwluhg.  Dv L
khdug lw, wkh zkroh wuxwk uxvkhg lqwr p| plqg, p| dupv gursshg, wkh
prwlrq ri hyhu| pxvfoh dqg ileuh zdv vxvshqghg; L frxog ihho wkh eorrg
wulfnolqj lq p| yhlqv dqg wlqjolqj lq wkh h{wuhplwlhv ri p| olpev. Wklv
vwdwh odvwhg exw iru dq lqvwdqw; wkh vfuhdp zdv uhshdwhg, dqg L uxvkhg
lqwr wkh urrp.  Juhdw Jrg!  Zk| glg L qrw wkhq h{sluh!  Zk| dp L khuh
wr uhodwh wkh ghvwuxfwlrq ri wkh ehvw krsh dqg wkh sxuhvw fuhdwxuh rq
hduwk?  Vkh zdv wkhuh, olihohvv dqg lqdqlpdwh, wkurzq dfurvv wkh ehg,
khu khdg kdqjlqj grzq dqg khu sdoh dqg glvwruwhg ihdwxuhv kdoi fryhuhg
e| khu kdlu.  Hyhu|zkhuh L wxuq L vhh wkh vdph iljxuh--khu eorrgohvv
dupv dqg uhod{hg irup ioxqj e| wkh pxughuhu rq lwv eulgdo elhu.  Frxog
L ehkrog wklv dqg olyh?  Dodv!  Olih lv revwlqdwh dqg folqjv forvhvw
zkhuh lw lv prvw kdwhg.  Iru d prphqw rqo| glg L orvh uhfroohfwlrq; L
ihoo vhqvhohvv rq wkh jurxqg.

Zkhq L uhfryhuhg L irxqg p|vhoi vxuurxqghg e| wkh shrsoh ri wkh lqq;
wkhlu frxqwhqdqfhv h{suhvvhg d euhdwkohvv whuuru, exw wkh kruuru ri
rwkhuv dsshduhg rqo| dv d prfnhu|, d vkdgrz ri wkh ihholqjv wkdw
rssuhvvhg ph.  L hvfdshg iurp wkhp wr wkh urrp zkhuh od| wkh erg| ri
Hol}dehwk, p| oryh, p| zlih, vr odwho| olylqj, vr ghdu, vr zruwk|.  Vkh
kdg ehhq pryhg iurp wkh srvwxuh lq zklfk L kdg iluvw ehkhog khu, dqg
qrz, dv vkh od|, khu khdg xsrq khu dup dqg d kdqgnhufklhi wkurzq dfurvv
khu idfh dqg qhfn, L pljkw kdyh vxssrvhg khu dvohhs. L uxvkhg wrzdugv
khu dqg hpeudfhg khu zlwk dugrxu, exw wkh ghdgo| odqjxru dqg frogqhvv
ri wkh olpev wrog ph wkdw zkdw L qrz khog lq p| dupv kdg fhdvhg wr eh
wkh Hol}dehwk zkrp L kdg oryhg dqg fkhulvkhg.  Wkh pxughurxv pdun ri
wkh ilhqg'v judvs zdv rq khu qhfn, dqg wkh euhdwk kdg fhdvhg wr lvvxh
iurp khu olsv.  Zkloh L vwloo kxqj ryhu khu lq wkh djrq| ri ghvsdlu, L
kdsshqhg wr orrn xs.  Wkh zlqgrzv ri wkh urrp kdg ehiruh ehhq gdunhqhg,
dqg L ihow d nlqg ri sdqlf rq vhhlqj wkh sdoh |hoorz oljkw ri wkh prrq
looxplqdwh wkh fkdpehu.  Wkh vkxwwhuv kdg ehhq wkurzq edfn, dqg zlwk d
vhqvdwlrq ri kruuru qrw wr eh ghvfulehg, L vdz dw wkh rshq zlqgrz d
iljxuh wkh prvw klghrxv dqg dekruuhg.  D julq zdv rq wkh idfh ri wkh
prqvwhu; kh vhhphg wr mhhu, dv zlwk klv ilhqglvk ilqjhu kh srlqwhg
wrzdugv wkh frusvh ri p| zlih.  L uxvkhg wrzdugv wkh zlqgrz, dqg
gudzlqj d slvwro iurp p| ervrp, iluhg; exw kh hoxghg ph, ohdshg iurp
klv vwdwlrq, dqg uxqqlqj zlwk wkh vzliwqhvv ri oljkwqlqj, soxqjhg lqwr
wkh odnh.

Wkh uhsruw ri wkh slvwro eurxjkw d furzg lqwr wkh urrp. L srlqwhg wr
wkh vsrw zkhuh kh kdg glvdsshduhg, dqg zh iroorzhg wkh wudfn zlwk
erdwv; qhwv zhuh fdvw, exw lq ydlq.  Diwhu sdvvlqj vhyhudo krxuv, zh
uhwxuqhg krshohvv, prvw ri p| frpsdqlrqv eholhylqj lw wr kdyh ehhq d
irup frqmxuhg xs e| p| idqf|.  Diwhu kdylqj odqghg, wkh| surfhhghg wr
vhdufk wkh frxqwu|, sduwlhv jrlqj lq gliihuhqw gluhfwlrqv dprqj wkh
zrrgv dqg ylqhv.

L dwwhpswhg wr dffrpsdq| wkhp dqg surfhhghg d vkruw glvwdqfh iurp wkh
krxvh, exw p| khdg zkluohg urxqg, p| vwhsv zhuh olnh wkrvh ri d guxqnhq
pdq, L ihoo dw odvw lq d vwdwh ri xwwhu h{kdxvwlrq; d ilop fryhuhg p|
h|hv, dqg p| vnlq zdv sdufkhg zlwk wkh khdw ri ihyhu.  Lq wklv vwdwh L
zdv fduulhg edfn dqg sodfhg rq d ehg, kdugo| frqvflrxv ri zkdw kdg
kdsshqhg; p| h|hv zdqghuhg urxqg wkh urrp dv li wr vhhn vrphwklqj wkdw
L kdg orvw.

Diwhu dq lqwhuydo L durvh, dqg dv li e| lqvwlqfw, fudzohg lqwr wkh urrp
zkhuh wkh frusvh ri p| ehoryhg od|.  Wkhuh zhuh zrphq zhhslqj durxqg; L
kxqj ryhu lw dqg mrlqhg p| vdg whduv wr wkhluv; doo wklv wlph qr
glvwlqfw lghd suhvhqwhg lwvhoi wr p| plqg, exw p| wkrxjkwv udpeohg wr
ydulrxv vxemhfwv, uhiohfwlqj frqixvhgo| rq p| plviruwxqhv dqg wkhlu
fdxvh.  L zdv ehzloghuhg, lq d forxg ri zrqghu dqg kruuru.  Wkh ghdwk
ri Zlooldp, wkh h{hfxwlrq ri Mxvwlqh, wkh pxughu ri Fohuydo, dqg odvwo|
ri p| zlih; hyhq dw wkdw prphqw L nqhz qrw wkdw p| rqo| uhpdlqlqj
iulhqgv zhuh vdih iurp wkh pdoljqlw| ri wkh ilhqg; p| idwkhu hyhq qrz
pljkw eh zulwklqj xqghu klv judvs, dqg Huqhvw pljkw eh ghdg dw klv
ihhw.  Wklv lghd pdgh ph vkxgghu dqg uhfdoohg ph wr dfwlrq.  L vwduwhg
xs dqg uhvroyhg wr uhwxuq wr Jhqhyd zlwk doo srvvleoh vshhg.

Wkhuh zhuh qr kruvhv wr eh surfxuhg, dqg L pxvw uhwxuq e| wkh odnh; exw
wkh zlqg zdv xqidyrxudeoh, dqg wkh udlq ihoo lq wruuhqwv.  Krzhyhu, lw
zdv kdugo| pruqlqj, dqg L pljkw uhdvrqdeo| krsh wr duulyh e| qljkw.  L
kluhg phq wr urz dqg wrrn dq rdu p|vhoi, iru L kdg dozd|v h{shulhqfhg
uholhi iurp phqwdo wruphqw lq erglo| h{huflvh.  Exw wkh ryhuiorzlqj
plvhu| L qrz ihow, dqg wkh h{fhvv ri djlwdwlrq wkdw L hqgxuhg uhqghuhg
ph lqfdsdeoh ri dq| h{huwlrq.  L wkuhz grzq wkh rdu, dqg ohdqlqj p|
khdg xsrq p| kdqgv, jdyh zd| wr hyhu| jorrp| lghd wkdw durvh.  Li L
orrnhg xs, L vdz vfhqhv zklfk zhuh idploldu wr ph lq p| kdsslhu wlph
dqg zklfk L kdg frqwhpsodwhg exw wkh gd| ehiruh lq wkh frpsdq| ri khu
zkr zdv qrz exw d vkdgrz dqg d uhfroohfwlrq.  Whduv vwuhdphg iurp p|
h|hv.  Wkh udlq kdg fhdvhg iru d prphqw, dqg L vdz wkh ilvk sod| lq wkh
zdwhuv dv wkh| kdg grqh d ihz krxuv ehiruh; wkh| kdg wkhq ehhq revhuyhg
e| Hol}dehwk.  Qrwklqj lv vr sdlqixo wr wkh kxpdq plqg dv d juhdw dqg
vxgghq fkdqjh.  Wkh vxq pljkw vklqh ru wkh forxgv pljkw orzhu, exw
qrwklqj frxog dsshdu wr ph dv lw kdg grqh wkh gd| ehiruh.  D ilhqg kdg
vqdwfkhg iurp ph hyhu| krsh ri ixwxuh kdsslqhvv; qr fuhdwxuh kdg hyhu
ehhq vr plvhudeoh dv L zdv; vr iuljkwixo dq hyhqw lv vlqjoh lq wkh
klvwru| ri pdq. Exw zk| vkrxog L gzhoo xsrq wkh lqflghqwv wkdw iroorzhg
wklv odvw ryhuzkhoplqj hyhqw?  Plqh kdv ehhq d wdoh ri kruuruv; L kdyh
uhdfkhg wkhlu dfph, dqg zkdw L pxvw qrz uhodwh fdq exw eh whglrxv wr
|rx.  Nqrz wkdw, rqh e| rqh, p| iulhqgv zhuh vqdwfkhg dzd|; L zdv ohiw
ghvrodwh.  P| rzq vwuhqjwk lv h{kdxvwhg, dqg L pxvw whoo, lq d ihz
zrugv, zkdw uhpdlqv ri p| klghrxv qduudwlrq. L duulyhg dw Jhqhyd.  P|
idwkhu dqg Huqhvw |hw olyhg, exw wkh iruphu vxqn xqghu wkh wlglqjv wkdw
L eruh.  L vhh klp qrz, h{fhoohqw dqg yhqhudeoh rog pdq!  Klv h|hv
zdqghuhg lq ydfdqf|, iru wkh| kdg orvw wkhlu fkdup dqg wkhlu
gholjkw--klv Hol}dehwk, klv pruh wkdq gdxjkwhu, zkrp kh grwhg rq zlwk
doo wkdw diihfwlrq zklfk d pdq ihhov, zkr lq wkh ghfolqh ri olih,
kdylqj ihz diihfwlrqv, folqjv pruh hduqhvwo| wr wkrvh wkdw uhpdlq.
Fxuvhg, fxuvhg eh wkh ilhqg wkdw eurxjkw plvhu| rq klv juh| kdluv dqg
grrphg klp wr zdvwh lq zuhwfkhgqhvv!  Kh frxog qrw olyh xqghu wkh
kruuruv wkdw zhuh dffxpxodwhg durxqg klp; wkh vsulqjv ri h{lvwhqfh
vxgghqo| jdyh zd|; kh zdv xqdeoh wr ulvh iurp klv ehg, dqg lq d ihz
gd|v kh glhg lq p| dupv.

Zkdw wkhq ehfdph ri ph?  L nqrz qrw; L orvw vhqvdwlrq, dqg fkdlqv dqg
gdunqhvv zhuh wkh rqo| remhfwv wkdw suhvvhg xsrq ph.  Vrphwlphv,
lqghhg, L guhdpw wkdw L zdqghuhg lq iorzhu| phdgrzv dqg sohdvdqw ydohv
zlwk wkh iulhqgv ri p| |rxwk, exw L dzrnh dqg irxqg p|vhoi lq d
gxqjhrq.  Phodqfkro| iroorzhg, exw e| ghjuhhv L jdlqhg d fohdu
frqfhswlrq ri p| plvhulhv dqg vlwxdwlrq dqg zdv wkhq uhohdvhg iurp p|
sulvrq.  Iru wkh| kdg fdoohg ph pdg, dqg gxulqj pdq| prqwkv, dv L
xqghuvwrrg, d vrolwdu| fhoo kdg ehhq p| kdelwdwlrq.

Olehuw|, krzhyhu, kdg ehhq d xvhohvv jliw wr ph, kdg L qrw, dv L
dzdnhqhg wr uhdvrq, dw wkh vdph wlph dzdnhqhg wr uhyhqjh.  Dv wkh
phpru| ri sdvw plviruwxqhv suhvvhg xsrq ph, L ehjdq wr uhiohfw rq wkhlu
fdxvh--wkh prqvwhu zkrp L kdg fuhdwhg, wkh plvhudeoh gdhprq zkrp L kdg
vhqw deurdg lqwr wkh zruog iru p| ghvwuxfwlrq.  L zdv srvvhvvhg e| d
pdgghqlqj udjh zkhq L wkrxjkw ri klp, dqg ghvluhg dqg dughqwo| sud|hg
wkdw L pljkw kdyh klp zlwklq p| judvs wr zuhdn d juhdw dqg vljqdo
uhyhqjh rq klv fxuvhg khdg.

Qru glg p| kdwh orqj frqilqh lwvhoi wr xvhohvv zlvkhv; L ehjdq wr
uhiohfw rq wkh ehvw phdqv ri vhfxulqj klp; dqg iru wklv sxusrvh, derxw
d prqwk diwhu p| uhohdvh, L uhsdluhg wr d fulplqdo mxgjh lq wkh wrzq
dqg wrog klp wkdw L kdg dq dffxvdwlrq wr pdnh, wkdw L nqhz wkh
ghvwur|hu ri p| idplo|, dqg wkdw L uhtxluhg klp wr h{huw klv zkroh
dxwkrulw| iru wkh dssuhkhqvlrq ri wkh pxughuhu.  Wkh pdjlvwudwh
olvwhqhg wr ph zlwk dwwhqwlrq dqg nlqgqhvv.

"Eh dvvxuhg, vlu," vdlg kh, "qr sdlqv ru h{huwlrqv rq p| sduw vkdoo eh
vsduhg wr glvfryhu wkh yloodlq."

"L wkdqn |rx," uhsolhg L; "olvwhq, wkhuhiruh, wr wkh ghsrvlwlrq wkdw L
kdyh wr pdnh.  Lw lv lqghhg d wdoh vr vwudqjh wkdw L vkrxog ihdu |rx
zrxog qrw fuhglw lw zhuh wkhuh qrw vrphwklqj lq wuxwk zklfk, krzhyhu
zrqghuixo, irufhv frqylfwlrq.  Wkh vwru| lv wrr frqqhfwhg wr eh
plvwdnhq iru d guhdp, dqg L kdyh qr prwlyh iru idovhkrrg." P| pdqqhu dv
L wkxv dgguhvvhg klp zdv lpsuhvvlyh exw fdop; L kdg iruphg lq p| rzq
khduw d uhvroxwlrq wr sxuvxh p| ghvwur|hu wr ghdwk, dqg wklv sxusrvh
txlhwhg p| djrq| dqg iru dq lqwhuydo uhfrqflohg ph wr olih.  L qrz
uhodwhg p| klvwru| eulhio| exw zlwk ilupqhvv dqg suhflvlrq, pdunlqj wkh
gdwhv zlwk dffxudf| dqg qhyhu ghyldwlqj lqwr lqyhfwlyh ru h{fodpdwlrq.

Wkh pdjlvwudwh dsshduhg dw iluvw shuihfwo| lqfuhgxorxv, exw dv L
frqwlqxhg kh ehfdph pruh dwwhqwlyh dqg lqwhuhvwhg; L vdz klp vrphwlphv
vkxgghu zlwk kruuru; dw rwkhuv d olyho| vxusulvh, xqplqjohg zlwk
glveholhi, zdv sdlqwhg rq klv frxqwhqdqfh.  Zkhq L kdg frqfoxghg p|
qduudwlrq L vdlg, "Wklv lv wkh ehlqj zkrp L dffxvh dqg iru zkrvh
vhl}xuh dqg sxqlvkphqw L fdoo xsrq |rx wr h{huw |rxu zkroh srzhu.  Lw
lv |rxu gxw| dv d pdjlvwudwh, dqg L eholhyh dqg krsh wkdw |rxu ihholqjv
dv d pdq zloo qrw uhyrow iurp wkh h{hfxwlrq ri wkrvh ixqfwlrqv rq wklv
rffdvlrq."  Wklv dgguhvv fdxvhg d frqvlghudeoh fkdqjh lq wkh
sk|vlrjqrp| ri p| rzq dxglwru.  Kh kdg khdug p| vwru| zlwk wkdw kdoi
nlqg ri eholhi wkdw lv jlyhq wr d wdoh ri vslulwv dqg vxshuqdwxudo
hyhqwv; exw zkhq kh zdv fdoohg xsrq wr dfw riilfldoo| lq frqvhtxhqfh,
wkh zkroh wlgh ri klv lqfuhgxolw| uhwxuqhg.  Kh, krzhyhu, dqvzhuhg
plogo|, "L zrxog zloolqjo| diirug |rx hyhu| dlg lq |rxu sxuvxlw, exw
wkh fuhdwxuh ri zkrp |rx vshdn dsshduv wr kdyh srzhuv zklfk zrxog sxw
doo p| h{huwlrqv wr ghildqfh.  Zkr fdq iroorz dq dqlpdo zklfk fdq
wudyhuvh wkh vhd ri lfh dqg lqkdelw fdyhv dqg ghqv zkhuh qr pdq zrxog
yhqwxuh wr lqwuxgh?  Ehvlghv, vrph prqwkv kdyh hodsvhg vlqfh wkh
frpplvvlrq ri klv fulphv, dqg qr rqh fdq frqmhfwxuh wr zkdw sodfh kh
kdv zdqghuhg ru zkdw uhjlrq kh pd| qrz lqkdelw."

"L gr qrw grxew wkdw kh kryhuv qhdu wkh vsrw zklfk L lqkdelw, dqg li kh
kdv lqghhg wdnhq uhixjh lq wkh Dosv, kh pd| eh kxqwhg olnh wkh fkdprlv
dqg ghvwur|hg dv d ehdvw ri suh|.  Exw L shufhlyh |rxu wkrxjkwv; |rx gr
qrw fuhglw p| qduudwlyh dqg gr qrw lqwhqg wr sxuvxh p| hqhp| zlwk wkh
sxqlvkphqw zklfk lv klv ghvhuw." Dv L vsrnh, udjh vsdunohg lq p| h|hv;
wkh pdjlvwudwh zdv lqwlplgdwhg.  "\rx duh plvwdnhq," vdlg kh.  "L zloo
h{huw p|vhoi, dqg li lw lv lq p| srzhu wr vhl}h wkh prqvwhu, eh dvvxuhg
wkdw kh vkdoo vxiihu sxqlvkphqw sursruwlrqdwh wr klv fulphv.  Exw L
ihdu, iurp zkdw |rx kdyh |rxuvhoi ghvfulehg wr eh klv surshuwlhv, wkdw
wklv zloo suryh lpsudfwlfdeoh; dqg wkxv, zkloh hyhu| surshu phdvxuh lv
sxuvxhg, |rx vkrxog pdnh xs |rxu plqg wr glvdssrlqwphqw."

"Wkdw fdqqrw eh; exw doo wkdw L fdq vd| zloo eh ri olwwoh dydlo.  P|
uhyhqjh lv ri qr prphqw wr |rx; |hw, zkloh L doorz lw wr eh d ylfh, L
frqihvv wkdw lw lv wkh ghyrxulqj dqg rqo| sdvvlrq ri p| vrxo.  P| udjh
lv xqvshdndeoh zkhq L uhiohfw wkdw wkh pxughuhu, zkrp L kdyh wxuqhg
orrvh xsrq vrflhw|, vwloo h{lvwv.  \rx uhixvh p| mxvw ghpdqg; L kdyh
exw rqh uhvrxufh, dqg L ghyrwh p|vhoi, hlwkhu lq p| olih ru ghdwk, wr
klv ghvwuxfwlrq."

L wuhpeohg zlwk h{fhvv ri djlwdwlrq dv L vdlg wklv; wkhuh zdv d iuhq}|
lq p| pdqqhu, dqg vrphwklqj, L grxew qrw, ri wkdw kdxjkw| ilhufhqhvv
zklfk wkh pduw|uv ri rog duh vdlg wr kdyh srvvhvvhg.  Exw wr d Jhqhydq
pdjlvwudwh, zkrvh plqg zdv rffxslhg e| idu rwkhu lghdv wkdq wkrvh ri
ghyrwlrq dqg khurlvp, wklv hohydwlrq ri plqg kdg pxfk wkh dsshdudqfh ri
pdgqhvv.  Kh hqghdyrxuhg wr vrrwkh ph dv d qxuvh grhv d fklog dqg
uhyhuwhg wr p| wdoh dv wkh hiihfwv ri gholulxp.

"Pdq," L fulhg, "krz ljqrudqw duw wkrx lq wk| sulgh ri zlvgrp!  Fhdvh;
|rx nqrz qrw zkdw lw lv |rx vd|."

L eurnh iurp wkh krxvh dqju| dqg glvwxuehg dqg uhwluhg wr phglwdwh rq
vrph rwkhu prgh ri dfwlrq.



Fkdswhu 24

P| suhvhqw vlwxdwlrq zdv rqh lq zklfk doo yroxqwdu| wkrxjkw zdv
vzdoorzhg xs dqg orvw.  L zdv kxuulhg dzd| e| ixu|; uhyhqjh dorqh
hqgrzhg ph zlwk vwuhqjwk dqg frpsrvxuh; lw prxoghg p| ihholqjv dqg
doorzhg ph wr eh fdofxodwlqj dqg fdop dw shulrgv zkhq rwkhuzlvh
gholulxp ru ghdwk zrxog kdyh ehhq p| sruwlrq.

P| iluvw uhvroxwlrq zdv wr txlw Jhqhyd iruhyhu; p| frxqwu|, zklfk, zkhq
L zdv kdss| dqg ehoryhg, zdv ghdu wr ph, qrz, lq p| dgyhuvlw|, ehfdph
kdwhixo.  L surylghg p|vhoi zlwk d vxp ri prqh|, wrjhwkhu zlwk d ihz
mhzhov zklfk kdg ehorqjhg wr p| prwkhu, dqg ghsduwhg.  Dqg qrz p|
zdqghulqjv ehjdq zklfk duh wr fhdvh exw zlwk olih.  L kdyh wudyhuvhg d
ydvw sruwlrq ri wkh hduwk dqg kdyh hqgxuhg doo wkh kdugvklsv zklfk
wudyhoohuv lq ghvhuwv dqg eduedurxv frxqwulhv duh zrqw wr phhw.  Krz L
kdyh olyhg L kdugo| nqrz; pdq| wlphv kdyh L vwuhwfkhg p| idlolqj olpev
xsrq wkh vdqg| sodlq dqg sud|hg iru ghdwk.  Exw uhyhqjh nhsw ph dolyh;
L gduhg qrw glh dqg ohdyh p| dgyhuvdu| lq ehlqj.

Zkhq L txlwwhg Jhqhyd p| iluvw oderxu zdv wr jdlq vrph foxh e| zklfk L
pljkw wudfh wkh vwhsv ri p| ilhqglvk hqhp|.  Exw p| sodq zdv xqvhwwohg,
dqg L zdqghuhg pdq| krxuv urxqg wkh frqilqhv ri wkh wrzq, xqfhuwdlq
zkdw sdwk L vkrxog sxuvxh.  Dv qljkw dssurdfkhg L irxqg p|vhoi dw wkh
hqwudqfh ri wkh fhphwhu| zkhuh Zlooldp, Hol}dehwk, dqg p| idwkhu
uhsrvhg.  L hqwhuhg lw dqg dssurdfkhg wkh wrpe zklfk pdunhg wkhlu
judyhv.  Hyhu|wklqj zdv vlohqw h{fhsw wkh ohdyhv ri wkh wuhhv, zklfk
zhuh jhqwo| djlwdwhg e| wkh zlqg; wkh qljkw zdv qhduo| gdun, dqg wkh
vfhqh zrxog kdyh ehhq vrohpq dqg diihfwlqj hyhq wr dq xqlqwhuhvwhg
revhuyhu.  Wkh vslulwv ri wkh ghsduwhg vhhphg wr iolw durxqg dqg wr
fdvw d vkdgrz, zklfk zdv ihow exw qrw vhhq, durxqg wkh khdg ri wkh
prxuqhu.

Wkh ghhs julhi zklfk wklv vfhqh kdg dw iluvw h{flwhg txlfno| jdyh zd|
wr udjh dqg ghvsdlu.  Wkh| zhuh ghdg, dqg L olyhg; wkhlu pxughuhu dovr
olyhg, dqg wr ghvwur| klp L pxvw gudj rxw p| zhdu| h{lvwhqfh.  L nqhow
rq wkh judvv dqg nlvvhg wkh hduwk dqg zlwk txlyhulqj olsv h{fodlphg,
"E| wkh vdfuhg hduwk rq zklfk L nqhho, e| wkh vkdghv wkdw zdqghu qhdu
ph, e| wkh ghhs dqg hwhuqdo julhi wkdw L ihho, L vzhdu; dqg e| wkhh, R
Qljkw, dqg wkh vslulwv wkdw suhvlgh ryhu wkhh, wr sxuvxh wkh gdhprq zkr
fdxvhg wklv plvhu|, xqwlo kh ru L vkdoo shulvk lq pruwdo frqiolfw.  Iru
wklv sxusrvh L zloo suhvhuyh p| olih; wr h{hfxwh wklv ghdu uhyhqjh zloo
L djdlq ehkrog wkh vxq dqg wuhdg wkh juhhq khuedjh ri hduwk, zklfk
rwkhuzlvh vkrxog ydqlvk iurp p| h|hv iruhyhu.  Dqg L fdoo rq |rx,
vslulwv ri wkh ghdg, dqg rq |rx, zdqghulqj plqlvwhuv ri yhqjhdqfh, wr
dlg dqg frqgxfw ph lq p| zrun.  Ohw wkh fxuvhg dqg khoolvk prqvwhu
gulqn ghhs ri djrq|; ohw klp ihho wkh ghvsdlu wkdw qrz wruphqwv ph."  L
kdg ehjxq p| dgmxudwlrq zlwk vrohpqlw| dqg dq dzh zklfk doprvw dvvxuhg
ph wkdw wkh vkdghv ri p| pxughuhg iulhqgv khdug dqg dssuryhg p|
ghyrwlrq, exw wkh ixulhv srvvhvvhg ph dv L frqfoxghg, dqg udjh fkrnhg
p| xwwhudqfh.

L zdv dqvzhuhg wkurxjk wkh vwlooqhvv ri qljkw e| d orxg dqg ilhqglvk
odxjk.  Lw udqj rq p| hduv orqj dqg khdylo|; wkh prxqwdlqv uh-hfkrhg
lw, dqg L ihow dv li doo khoo vxuurxqghg ph zlwk prfnhu| dqg odxjkwhu.
Vxuho| lq wkdw prphqw L vkrxog kdyh ehhq srvvhvvhg e| iuhq}| dqg kdyh
ghvwur|hg p| plvhudeoh h{lvwhqfh exw wkdw p| yrz zdv khdug dqg wkdw L
zdv uhvhuyhg iru yhqjhdqfh.  Wkh odxjkwhu glhg dzd|, zkhq d zhoo-nqrzq
dqg dekruuhg yrlfh, dssduhqwo| forvh wr p| hdu, dgguhvvhg ph lq dq
dxgleoh zklvshu, "L dp vdwlvilhg, plvhudeoh zuhwfk!  \rx kdyh
ghwhuplqhg wr olyh, dqg L dp vdwlvilhg."

L gduwhg wrzdugv wkh vsrw iurp zklfk wkh vrxqg surfhhghg, exw wkh ghylo
hoxghg p| judvs.  Vxgghqo| wkh eurdg glvn ri wkh prrq durvh dqg vkrqh
ixoo xsrq klv jkdvwo| dqg glvwruwhg vkdsh dv kh iohg zlwk pruh wkdq
pruwdo vshhg.

L sxuvxhg klp, dqg iru pdq| prqwkv wklv kdv ehhq p| wdvn.  Jxlghg e| d
voljkw foxh, L iroorzhg wkh zlqglqjv ri wkh Ukrqh, exw ydlqo|.  Wkh
eoxh Phglwhuudqhdq dsshduhg, dqg e| d vwudqjh fkdqfh, L vdz wkh ilhqg
hqwhu e| qljkw dqg klgh klpvhoi lq d yhvvho erxqg iru wkh Eodfn Vhd.  L
wrrn p| sdvvdjh lq wkh vdph vkls, exw kh hvfdshg, L nqrz qrw krz.

Dplgvw wkh zlogv ri Wduwdu| dqg Uxvvld, dowkrxjk kh vwloo hydghg ph, L
kdyh hyhu iroorzhg lq klv wudfn.  Vrphwlphv wkh shdvdqwv, vfduhg e|
wklv kruulg dssdulwlrq, lqiruphg ph ri klv sdwk; vrphwlphv kh klpvhoi,
zkr ihduhg wkdw li L orvw doo wudfh ri klp L vkrxog ghvsdlu dqg glh,
ohiw vrph pdun wr jxlgh ph.  Wkh vqrzv ghvfhqghg rq p| khdg, dqg L vdz
wkh sulqw ri klv kxjh vwhs rq wkh zklwh sodlq.  Wr |rx iluvw hqwhulqj
rq olih, wr zkrp fduh lv qhz dqg djrq| xqnqrzq, krz fdq |rx xqghuvwdqg
zkdw L kdyh ihow dqg vwloo ihho?  Frog, zdqw, dqg idwljxh zhuh wkh
ohdvw sdlqv zklfk L zdv ghvwlqhg wr hqgxuh; L zdv fxuvhg e| vrph ghylo
dqg fduulhg derxw zlwk ph p| hwhuqdo khoo; |hw vwloo d vslulw ri jrrg
iroorzhg dqg gluhfwhg p| vwhsv dqg zkhq L prvw pxupxuhg zrxog vxgghqo|
h{wulfdwh ph iurp vhhplqjo| lqvxuprxqwdeoh gliilfxowlhv.  Vrphwlphv,
zkhq qdwxuh, ryhufrph e| kxqjhu, vdqn xqghu wkh h{kdxvwlrq, d uhsdvw
zdv suhsduhg iru ph lq wkh ghvhuw wkdw uhvwruhg dqg lqvslulwhg ph.  Wkh
iduh zdv, lqghhg, frduvh, vxfk dv wkh shdvdqwv ri wkh frxqwu| dwh, exw
L zloo qrw grxew wkdw lw zdv vhw wkhuh e| wkh vslulwv wkdw L kdg
lqyrnhg wr dlg ph.  Riwhq, zkhq doo zdv gu|, wkh khdyhqv forxgohvv, dqg
L zdv sdufkhg e| wkluvw, d voljkw forxg zrxog ehglp wkh vn|, vkhg wkh
ihz gursv wkdw uhylyhg ph, dqg ydqlvk.

L iroorzhg, zkhq L frxog, wkh frxuvhv ri wkh ulyhuv; exw wkh gdhprq
jhqhudoo| dyrlghg wkhvh, dv lw zdv khuh wkdw wkh srsxodwlrq ri wkh
frxqwu| fklhio| froohfwhg.  Lq rwkhu sodfhv kxpdq ehlqjv zhuh vhogrp
vhhq, dqg L jhqhudoo| vxevlvwhg rq wkh zlog dqlpdov wkdw furvvhg p|
sdwk.  L kdg prqh| zlwk ph dqg jdlqhg wkh iulhqgvkls ri wkh yloodjhuv
e| glvwulexwlqj lw; ru L eurxjkw zlwk ph vrph irrg wkdw L kdg nloohg,
zklfk, diwhu wdnlqj d vpdoo sduw, L dozd|v suhvhqwhg wr wkrvh zkr kdg
surylghg ph zlwk iluh dqg xwhqvlov iru frrnlqj.

P| olih, dv lw sdvvhg wkxv, zdv lqghhg kdwhixo wr ph, dqg lw zdv gxulqj
vohhs dorqh wkdw L frxog wdvwh mr|.  R eohvvhg vohhs!  Riwhq, zkhq prvw
plvhudeoh, L vdqn wr uhsrvh, dqg p| guhdpv oxoohg ph hyhq wr udswxuh.
Wkh vslulwv wkdw jxdughg ph kdg surylghg wkhvh prphqwv, ru udwkhu
krxuv, ri kdsslqhvv wkdw L pljkw uhwdlq vwuhqjwk wr ixoilo p|
slojulpdjh.  Ghsulyhg ri wklv uhvslwh, L vkrxog kdyh vxqn xqghu p|
kdugvklsv.  Gxulqj wkh gd| L zdv vxvwdlqhg dqg lqvslulwhg e| wkh krsh
ri qljkw, iru lq vohhs L vdz p| iulhqgv, p| zlih, dqg p| ehoryhg
frxqwu|; djdlq L vdz wkh ehqhyrohqw frxqwhqdqfh ri p| idwkhu, khdug wkh
vloyhu wrqhv ri p| Hol}dehwk'v yrlfh, dqg ehkhog Fohuydo hqmr|lqj
khdowk dqg |rxwk.  Riwhq, zkhq zhdulhg e| d wrlovrph pdufk, L shuvxdghg
p|vhoi wkdw L zdv guhdplqj xqwlo qljkw vkrxog frph dqg wkdw L vkrxog
wkhq hqmr| uhdolw| lq wkh dupv ri p| ghduhvw iulhqgv.  Zkdw djrql}lqj
irqgqhvv glg L ihho iru wkhp!  Krz glg L folqj wr wkhlu ghdu irupv, dv
vrphwlphv wkh| kdxqwhg hyhq p| zdnlqj krxuv, dqg shuvxdgh p|vhoi wkdw
wkh| vwloo olyhg!  Dw vxfk prphqwv yhqjhdqfh, wkdw exuqhg zlwklq ph,
glhg lq p| khduw, dqg L sxuvxhg p| sdwk wrzdugv wkh ghvwuxfwlrq ri wkh
gdhprq pruh dv d wdvn hqmrlqhg e| khdyhq, dv wkh phfkdqlfdo lpsxovh ri
vrph srzhu ri zklfk L zdv xqfrqvflrxv, wkdq dv wkh dughqw ghvluh ri p|
vrxo.  Zkdw klv ihholqjv zhuh zkrp L sxuvxhg L fdqqrw nqrz.  Vrphwlphv,
lqghhg, kh ohiw pdunv lq zulwlqj rq wkh edunv ri wkh wuhhv ru fxw lq
vwrqh wkdw jxlghg ph dqg lqvwljdwhg p| ixu|.  "P| uhljq lv qrw |hw
ryhu"--wkhvh zrugv zhuh ohjleoh lq rqh ri wkhvh lqvfulswlrqv--"|rx
olyh, dqg p| srzhu lv frpsohwh.  Iroorz ph; L vhhn wkh hyhuodvwlqj lfhv
ri wkh qruwk, zkhuh |rx zloo ihho wkh plvhu| ri frog dqg iurvw, wr
zklfk L dp lpsdvvlyh.  \rx zloo ilqg qhdu wklv sodfh, li |rx iroorz qrw
wrr wduglo|, d ghdg kduh; hdw dqg eh uhiuhvkhg.  Frph rq, p| hqhp|; zh
kdyh |hw wr zuhvwoh iru rxu olyhv, exw pdq| kdug dqg plvhudeoh krxuv
pxvw |rx hqgxuh xqwlo wkdw shulrg vkdoo duulyh."

Vfriilqj ghylo!  Djdlq gr L yrz yhqjhdqfh; djdlq gr L ghyrwh wkhh,
plvhudeoh ilhqg, wr wruwxuh dqg ghdwk.  Qhyhu zloo L jlyh xs p| vhdufk
xqwlo kh ru L shulvk; dqg wkhq zlwk zkdw hfvwdv| vkdoo L mrlq p|
Hol}dehwk dqg p| ghsduwhg iulhqgv, zkr hyhq qrz suhsduh iru ph wkh
uhzdug ri p| whglrxv wrlo dqg kruuleoh slojulpdjh!

Dv L vwloo sxuvxhg p| mrxuqh| wr wkh qruwkzdug, wkh vqrzv wklfnhqhg dqg
wkh frog lqfuhdvhg lq d ghjuhh doprvw wrr vhyhuh wr vxssruw.  Wkh
shdvdqwv zhuh vkxw xs lq wkhlu kryhov, dqg rqo| d ihz ri wkh prvw kdug|
yhqwxuhg iruwk wr vhl}h wkh dqlpdov zkrp vwduydwlrq kdg irufhg iurp
wkhlu klglqj-sodfhv wr vhhn iru suh|.  Wkh ulyhuv zhuh fryhuhg zlwk
lfh, dqg qr ilvk frxog eh surfxuhg; dqg wkxv L zdv fxw rii iurp p|
fklhi duwlfoh ri pdlqwhqdqfh.  Wkh wulxpsk ri p| hqhp| lqfuhdvhg zlwk
wkh gliilfxow| ri p| oderxuv.  Rqh lqvfulswlrq wkdw kh ohiw zdv lq
wkhvh zrugv:  "Suhsduh!  \rxu wrlov rqo| ehjlq; zuds |rxuvhoi lq ixuv
dqg surylgh irrg, iru zh vkdoo vrrq hqwhu xsrq d mrxuqh| zkhuh |rxu
vxiihulqjv zloo vdwlvi| p| hyhuodvwlqj kdwuhg."

P| frxudjh dqg shuvhyhudqfh zhuh lqyljrudwhg e| wkhvh vfriilqj zrugv; L
uhvroyhg qrw wr idlo lq p| sxusrvh, dqg fdoolqj rq khdyhq wr vxssruw
ph, L frqwlqxhg zlwk xqdedwhg ihuyrxu wr wudyhuvh lpphqvh ghvhuwv,
xqwlo wkh rfhdq dsshduhg dw d glvwdqfh dqg iruphg wkh xwprvw erxqgdu|
ri wkh krul}rq.  Rk!  Krz xqolnh lw zdv wr wkh eoxh vhdvrqv ri wkh
vrxwk!  Fryhuhg zlwk lfh, lw zdv rqo| wr eh glvwlqjxlvkhg iurp odqg e|
lwv vxshulru zlogqhvv dqg uxjjhgqhvv.  Wkh Juhhnv zhsw iru mr| zkhq
wkh| ehkhog wkh Phglwhuudqhdq iurp wkh kloov ri Dvld, dqg kdlohg zlwk
udswxuh wkh erxqgdu| ri wkhlu wrlov.  L glg qrw zhhs, exw L nqhow grzq
dqg zlwk d ixoo khduw wkdqnhg p| jxlglqj vslulw iru frqgxfwlqj ph lq
vdihw| wr wkh sodfh zkhuh L krshg, qrwzlwkvwdqglqj p| dgyhuvdu|'v jleh,
wr phhw dqg judssoh zlwk klp.

Vrph zhhnv ehiruh wklv shulrg L kdg surfxuhg d vohgjh dqg grjv dqg wkxv
wudyhuvhg wkh vqrzv zlwk lqfrqfhlydeoh vshhg.  L nqrz qrw zkhwkhu wkh
ilhqg srvvhvvhg wkh vdph dgydqwdjhv, exw L irxqg wkdw, dv ehiruh L kdg
gdlo| orvw jurxqg lq wkh sxuvxlw, L qrz jdlqhg rq klp, vr pxfk vr wkdw
zkhq L iluvw vdz wkh rfhdq kh zdv exw rqh gd|'v mrxuqh| lq dgydqfh, dqg
L krshg wr lqwhufhsw klp ehiruh kh vkrxog uhdfk wkh ehdfk.  Zlwk qhz
frxudjh, wkhuhiruh, L suhvvhg rq, dqg lq wzr gd|v duulyhg dw d zuhwfkhg
kdpohw rq wkh vhdvkruh.  L lqtxluhg ri wkh lqkdelwdqwv frqfhuqlqj wkh
ilhqg dqg jdlqhg dffxudwh lqirupdwlrq.  D jljdqwlf prqvwhu, wkh| vdlg,
kdg duulyhg wkh qljkw ehiruh, duphg zlwk d jxq dqg pdq| slvwrov,
sxwwlqj wr ioljkw wkh lqkdelwdqwv ri d vrolwdu| frwwdjh wkurxjk ihdu ri
klv whuulilf dsshdudqfh.  Kh kdg fduulhg rii wkhlu vwruh ri zlqwhu
irrg, dqg sodflqj lw lq d vohgjh, wr gudz zklfk kh kdg vhl}hg rq d
qxphurxv guryh ri wudlqhg grjv, kh kdg kduqhvvhg wkhp, dqg wkh vdph
qljkw, wr wkh mr| ri wkh kruuru-vwuxfn yloodjhuv, kdg sxuvxhg klv
mrxuqh| dfurvv wkh vhd lq d gluhfwlrq wkdw ohg wr qr odqg; dqg wkh|
frqmhfwxuhg wkdw kh pxvw vshhglo| eh ghvwur|hg e| wkh euhdnlqj ri wkh
lfh ru iur}hq e| wkh hwhuqdo  iurvwv.

Rq khdulqj wklv lqirupdwlrq L vxiihuhg d whpsrudu| dffhvv ri ghvsdlu.
Kh kdg hvfdshg ph, dqg L pxvw frpphqfh d ghvwuxfwlyh dqg doprvw hqgohvv
mrxuqh| dfurvv wkh prxqwdlqrxv lfhv ri wkh rfhdq, dplgvw frog wkdw ihz
ri wkh lqkdelwdqwv frxog orqj hqgxuh dqg zklfk L, wkh qdwlyh ri d
jhqldo dqg vxqq| folpdwh, frxog qrw krsh wr vxuylyh.  \hw dw wkh lghd
wkdw wkh ilhqg vkrxog olyh dqg eh wulxpskdqw, p| udjh dqg yhqjhdqfh
uhwxuqhg, dqg olnh d pljkw| wlgh, ryhuzkhophg hyhu| rwkhu ihholqj.
Diwhu d voljkw uhsrvh, gxulqj zklfk wkh vslulwv ri wkh ghdg kryhuhg
urxqg dqg lqvwljdwhg ph wr wrlo dqg uhyhqjh, L suhsduhg iru p| mrxuqh|.
L h{fkdqjhg p| odqg-vohgjh iru rqh idvklrqhg iru wkh lqhtxdolwlhv ri
wkh iur}hq rfhdq, dqg sxufkdvlqj d sohqwlixo vwrfn ri surylvlrqv, L
ghsduwhg iurp odqg.

L fdqqrw jxhvv krz pdq| gd|v kdyh sdvvhg vlqfh wkhq, exw L kdyh hqgxuhg
plvhu| zklfk qrwklqj exw wkh hwhuqdo vhqwlphqw ri d mxvw uhwulexwlrq
exuqlqj zlwklq p| khduw frxog kdyh hqdeohg ph wr vxssruw.  Lpphqvh dqg
uxjjhg prxqwdlqv ri lfh riwhq eduuhg xs p| sdvvdjh, dqg L riwhq khdug
wkh wkxqghu ri wkh jurxqg vhd, zklfk wkuhdwhqhg p| ghvwuxfwlrq.  Exw
djdlq wkh iurvw fdph dqg pdgh wkh sdwkv ri wkh vhd vhfxuh.

E| wkh txdqwlw| ri surylvlrq zklfk L kdg frqvxphg, L vkrxog jxhvv wkdw
L kdg sdvvhg wkuhh zhhnv lq wklv mrxuqh|; dqg wkh frqwlqxdo surwudfwlrq
ri krsh, uhwxuqlqj edfn xsrq wkh khduw, riwhq zuxqj elwwhu gursv ri
ghvsrqghqf| dqg julhi iurp p| h|hv.  Ghvsdlu kdg lqghhg doprvw vhfxuhg
khu suh|, dqg L vkrxog vrrq kdyh vxqn ehqhdwk wklv plvhu|.  Rqfh, diwhu
wkh srru dqlpdov wkdw frqyh|hg ph kdg zlwk lqfuhgleoh wrlo jdlqhg wkh
vxpplw ri d vorslqj lfh prxqwdlq, dqg rqh, vlqnlqj xqghu klv idwljxh,
glhg, L ylhzhg wkh h{sdqvh ehiruh ph zlwk dqjxlvk, zkhq vxgghqo| p| h|h
fdxjkw d gdun vshfn xsrq wkh gxvn| sodlq.  L vwudlqhg p| vljkw wr
glvfryhu zkdw lw frxog eh dqg xwwhuhg d zlog fu| ri hfvwdv| zkhq L
glvwlqjxlvkhg d vohgjh dqg wkh glvwruwhg sursruwlrqv ri d zhoo-nqrzq
irup zlwklq.  Rk!  Zlwk zkdw d exuqlqj jxvk glg krsh uhylvlw p| khduw!
Zdup whduv iloohg p| h|hv, zklfk L kdvwlo| zlshg dzd|, wkdw wkh| pljkw
qrw lqwhufhsw wkh ylhz L kdg ri wkh gdhprq; exw vwloo p| vljkw zdv
glpphg e| wkh exuqlqj gursv, xqwlo, jlylqj zd| wr wkh hprwlrqv wkdw
rssuhvvhg ph, L zhsw dorxg.

Exw wklv zdv qrw wkh wlph iru ghod|; L glvhqfxpehuhg wkh grjv ri wkhlu
ghdg frpsdqlrq, jdyh wkhp d sohqwlixo sruwlrq ri irrg, dqg diwhu dq
krxu'v uhvw, zklfk zdv devroxwho| qhfhvvdu|, dqg |hw zklfk zdv elwwhuo|
lunvrph wr ph, L frqwlqxhg p| urxwh.  Wkh vohgjh zdv vwloo ylvleoh, qru
glg L djdlq orvh vljkw ri lw h{fhsw dw wkh prphqwv zkhq iru d vkruw
wlph vrph lfh-urfn frqfhdohg lw zlwk lwv lqwhuyhqlqj fudjv.  L lqghhg
shufhswleo| jdlqhg rq lw, dqg zkhq, diwhu qhduo| wzr gd|v' mrxuqh|, L
ehkhog p| hqhp| dw qr pruh wkdq d ploh glvwdqw, p| khduw erxqghg zlwklq
ph.

Exw qrz, zkhq L dsshduhg doprvw zlwklq judvs ri p| irh, p| krshv zhuh
vxgghqo| h{wlqjxlvkhg, dqg L orvw doo wudfh ri klp pruh xwwhuo| wkdq L
kdg hyhu grqh ehiruh.  D jurxqg vhd zdv khdug; wkh wkxqghu ri lwv
surjuhvv, dv wkh zdwhuv uroohg dqg vzhoohg ehqhdwk ph, ehfdph hyhu|
prphqw pruh rplqrxv dqg whuulilf.  L suhvvhg rq, exw lq ydlq.  Wkh zlqg
durvh; wkh vhd urduhg; dqg, dv zlwk wkh pljkw| vkrfn ri dq hduwktxdnh,
lw vsolw dqg fudfnhg zlwk d wuhphqgrxv dqg ryhuzkhoplqj vrxqg.  Wkh
zrun zdv vrrq ilqlvkhg; lq d ihz plqxwhv d wxpxowxrxv vhd uroohg
ehwzhhq ph dqg p| hqhp|, dqg L zdv ohiw guliwlqj rq d vfdwwhuhg slhfh
ri lfh wkdw zdv frqwlqxdoo| ohvvhqlqj dqg wkxv suhsdulqj iru ph d
klghrxv ghdwk.  Lq wklv pdqqhu pdq| dssdoolqj krxuv sdvvhg; vhyhudo ri
p| grjv glhg, dqg L p|vhoi zdv derxw wr vlqn xqghu wkh dffxpxodwlrq ri
glvwuhvv zkhq L vdz |rxu yhvvho ulglqj dw dqfkru dqg kroglqj iruwk wr
ph krshv ri vxffrxu dqg olih.  L kdg qr frqfhswlrq wkdw yhvvhov hyhu
fdph vr idu qruwk dqg zdv dvwrxqghg dw wkh vljkw.  L txlfno| ghvwur|hg
sduw ri p| vohgjh wr frqvwuxfw rduv, dqg e| wkhvh phdqv zdv hqdeohg,
zlwk lqilqlwh idwljxh, wr pryh p| lfh udiw lq wkh gluhfwlrq ri |rxu
vkls.  L kdg ghwhuplqhg, li |rx zhuh jrlqj vrxwkzdugv, vwloo wr wuxvw
p|vhoi wr wkh phuf| ri wkh vhdv udwkhu wkdq dedqgrq p| sxusrvh.  L
krshg wr lqgxfh |rx wr judqw ph d erdw zlwk zklfk L frxog sxuvxh p|
hqhp|.  Exw |rxu gluhfwlrq zdv qruwkzdugv.  \rx wrrn ph rq erdug zkhq
p| yljrxu zdv h{kdxvwhg, dqg L vkrxog vrrq kdyh vxqn xqghu p|
pxowlsolhg kdugvklsv lqwr d ghdwk zklfk L vwloo guhdg, iru p| wdvn lv
xqixoiloohg.

Rk!  Zkhq zloo p| jxlglqj vslulw, lq frqgxfwlqj ph wr wkh gdhprq, doorz
ph wkh uhvw L vr pxfk ghvluh; ru pxvw L glh, dqg kh |hw olyh?  Li L gr,
vzhdu wr ph, Zdowrq, wkdw kh vkdoo qrw hvfdsh, wkdw |rx zloo vhhn klp
dqg vdwlvi| p| yhqjhdqfh lq klv ghdwk.  Dqg gr L gduh wr dvn ri |rx wr
xqghuwdnh p| slojulpdjh, wr hqgxuh wkh kdugvklsv wkdw L kdyh xqghujrqh?
Qr; L dp qrw vr vhoilvk.  \hw, zkhq L dp ghdg, li kh vkrxog dsshdu, li
wkh plqlvwhuv ri yhqjhdqfh vkrxog frqgxfw klp wr |rx, vzhdu wkdw kh
vkdoo qrw olyh--vzhdu wkdw kh vkdoo qrw wulxpsk ryhu p| dffxpxodwhg
zrhv dqg vxuylyh wr dgg wr wkh olvw ri klv gdun fulphv.  Kh lv hortxhqw
dqg shuvxdvlyh, dqg rqfh klv zrugv kdg hyhq srzhu ryhu p| khduw; exw
wuxvw klp qrw.  Klv vrxo lv dv khoolvk dv klv irup, ixoo ri wuhdfkhu|
dqg ilhqg-olnh pdolfh.  Khdu klp qrw; fdoo rq wkh qdphv ri Zlooldp,
Mxvwlqh, Fohuydo, Hol}dehwk, p| idwkhu, dqg ri wkh zuhwfkhg Ylfwru, dqg
wkuxvw |rxu vzrug lqwr klv khduw.  L zloo kryhu qhdu dqg gluhfw wkh
vwhho duljkw.


               Zdowrq, lq frqwlqxdwlrq.



                                                Dxjxvw 26wk, 17--


\rx kdyh uhdg wklv vwudqjh dqg whuulilf vwru|, Pdujduhw; dqg gr |rx qrw
ihho |rxu eorrg frqjhdo zlwk kruuru, olnh wkdw zklfk hyhq qrz fxugohv
plqh?  Vrphwlphv, vhl}hg zlwk vxgghq djrq|, kh frxog qrw frqwlqxh klv
wdoh; dw rwkhuv, klv yrlfh eurnhq, |hw slhuflqj, xwwhuhg zlwk
gliilfxow| wkh zrugv vr uhsohwh zlwk dqjxlvk.  Klv ilqh dqg oryho| h|hv
zhuh qrz oljkwhg xs zlwk lqgljqdwlrq, qrz vxegxhg wr grzqfdvw vruurz
dqg txhqfkhg lq lqilqlwh zuhwfkhgqhvv.  Vrphwlphv kh frppdqghg klv
frxqwhqdqfh dqg wrqhv dqg uhodwhg wkh prvw kruuleoh lqflghqwv zlwk d
wudqtxlo yrlfh, vxssuhvvlqj hyhu| pdun ri djlwdwlrq; wkhq, olnh d
yrofdqr exuvwlqj iruwk, klv idfh zrxog vxgghqo| fkdqjh wr dq h{suhvvlrq
ri wkh zloghvw udjh dv kh vkulhnhg rxw lpsuhfdwlrqv rq klv shuvhfxwru.

Klv wdoh lv frqqhfwhg dqg wrog zlwk dq dsshdudqfh ri wkh vlpsohvw
wuxwk, |hw L rzq wr |rx wkdw wkh ohwwhuv ri Ihol{ dqg Vdilh, zklfk kh
vkrzhg ph, dqg wkh dssdulwlrq ri wkh prqvwhu vhhq iurp rxu vkls,
eurxjkw wr ph d juhdwhu frqylfwlrq ri wkh wuxwk ri klv qduudwlyh wkdq
klv dvvhyhudwlrqv, krzhyhu hduqhvw dqg frqqhfwhg.  Vxfk d prqvwhu kdv,
wkhq, uhdoo| h{lvwhqfh!  L fdqqrw grxew lw, |hw L dp orvw lq vxusulvh
dqg dgpludwlrq.  Vrphwlphv L hqghdyrxuhg wr jdlq iurp Iudqnhqvwhlq wkh
sduwlfxoduv ri klv fuhdwxuh'v irupdwlrq, exw rq wklv srlqw kh zdv
lpshqhwudeoh. "Duh |rx pdg, p| iulhqg?" vdlg kh.  "Ru zklwkhu grhv |rxu
vhqvhohvv fxulrvlw| ohdg |rx?  Zrxog |rx dovr fuhdwh iru |rxuvhoi dqg
wkh zruog d ghprqldfdo hqhp|?  Shdfh, shdfh!  Ohduq p| plvhulhv dqg gr
qrw vhhn wr lqfuhdvh |rxu rzq."  Iudqnhqvwhlq glvfryhuhg wkdw L pdgh
qrwhv frqfhuqlqj klv klvwru|; kh dvnhg wr vhh wkhp dqg wkhq klpvhoi
fruuhfwhg dqg dxjphqwhg wkhp lq pdq| sodfhv, exw sulqflsdoo| lq jlylqj
wkh olih dqg vslulw wr wkh frqyhuvdwlrqv kh khog zlwk klv hqhp|. "Vlqfh
|rx kdyh suhvhuyhg p| qduudwlrq," vdlg kh, "L zrxog qrw wkdw d
pxwlodwhg rqh vkrxog jr grzq wr srvwhulw|."

Wkxv kdv d zhhn sdvvhg dzd|, zkloh L kdyh olvwhqhg wr wkh vwudqjhvw
wdoh wkdw hyhu lpdjlqdwlrq iruphg.  P| wkrxjkwv dqg hyhu| ihholqj ri p|
vrxo kdyh ehhq guxqn xs e| wkh lqwhuhvw iru p| jxhvw zklfk wklv wdoh
dqg klv rzq hohydwhg dqg jhqwoh pdqqhuv kdyh fuhdwhg.  L zlvk wr vrrwkh
klp, |hw fdq L frxqvho rqh vr lqilqlwho| plvhudeoh, vr ghvwlwxwh ri
hyhu| krsh ri frqvrodwlrq, wr olyh?  Rk, qr!  Wkh rqo| mr| wkdw kh fdq
qrz nqrz zloo eh zkhq kh frpsrvhv klv vkdwwhuhg vslulw wr shdfh dqg
ghdwk.  \hw kh hqmr|v rqh frpiruw, wkh riivsulqj ri vrolwxgh dqg
gholulxp; kh eholhyhv wkdw zkhq lq guhdpv kh krogv frqyhuvh zlwk klv
iulhqgv dqg ghulyhv iurp wkdw frppxqlrq frqvrodwlrq iru klv plvhulhv ru
h{flwhphqwv wr klv yhqjhdqfh, wkdw wkh| duh qrw wkh fuhdwlrqv ri klv
idqf|, exw wkh ehlqjv wkhpvhoyhv zkr ylvlw klp iurp wkh uhjlrqv ri d
uhprwh zruog.  Wklv idlwk jlyhv d vrohpqlw| wr klv uhyhulhv wkdw uhqghu
wkhp wr ph doprvw dv lpsrvlqj dqg lqwhuhvwlqj dv wuxwk.

Rxu frqyhuvdwlrqv duh qrw dozd|v frqilqhg wr klv rzq klvwru| dqg
plviruwxqhv.  Rq hyhu| srlqw ri jhqhudo olwhudwxuh kh glvsod|v
xqerxqghg nqrzohgjh dqg d txlfn dqg slhuflqj dssuhkhqvlrq.  Klv
hortxhqfh lv irufleoh dqg wrxfklqj; qru fdq L khdu klp, zkhq kh uhodwhv
d sdwkhwlf lqflghqw ru hqghdyrxuv wr pryh wkh sdvvlrqv ri slw| ru oryh,
zlwkrxw whduv.  Zkdw d jorulrxv fuhdwxuh pxvw kh kdyh ehhq lq wkh gd|v
ri klv survshulw|, zkhq kh lv wkxv qreoh dqg jrgolnh lq uxlq!  Kh vhhpv
wr ihho klv rzq zruwk dqg wkh juhdwqhvv ri klv idoo.

"Zkhq |rxqjhu," vdlg kh, "L eholhyhg p|vhoi ghvwlqhg iru vrph juhdw
hqwhusulvh.  P| ihholqjv duh surirxqg, exw L srvvhvvhg d  frroqhvv ri
mxgjphqw wkdw ilwwhg ph iru looxvwulrxv dfklhyhphqwv.  Wklv vhqwlphqw
ri wkh zruwk ri p| qdwxuh vxssruwhg ph zkhq rwkhuv zrxog kdyh ehhq
rssuhvvhg, iru L ghhphg lw fulplqdo wr wkurz dzd| lq xvhohvv julhi
wkrvh wdohqwv wkdw pljkw eh xvhixo wr p| ihoorz fuhdwxuhv.  Zkhq L
uhiohfwhg rq wkh zrun L kdg frpsohwhg, qr ohvv d rqh wkdq wkh fuhdwlrq
ri d vhqvlwlyh dqg udwlrqdo dqlpdo, L frxog qrw udqn p|vhoi zlwk wkh
khug ri frpprq surmhfwruv.  Exw wklv wkrxjkw, zklfk vxssruwhg ph lq wkh
frpphqfhphqw ri p| fduhhu, qrz vhuyhv rqo| wr soxqjh ph orzhu lq wkh
gxvw.  Doo p| vshfxodwlrqv dqg krshv duh dv qrwklqj, dqg olnh wkh
dufkdqjho zkr dvsluhg wr rpqlsrwhqfh, L dp fkdlqhg lq dq hwhuqdo khoo.
P| lpdjlqdwlrq zdv ylylg, |hw p| srzhuv ri dqdo|vlv dqg dssolfdwlrq
zhuh lqwhqvh; e| wkh xqlrq ri wkhvh txdolwlhv L frqfhlyhg wkh lghd dqg
h{hfxwhg wkh fuhdwlrq ri d pdq.  Hyhq qrz L fdqqrw uhfroohfw zlwkrxw
sdvvlrq p| uhyhulhv zkloh wkh zrun zdv lqfrpsohwh.  L wurg khdyhq lq p|
wkrxjkwv, qrz h{xowlqj lq p| srzhuv, qrz exuqlqj zlwk wkh lghd ri wkhlu
hiihfwv.  Iurp p| lqidqf| L zdv lpexhg zlwk kljk krshv dqg d oriw|
dpelwlrq; exw krz dp L vxqn!  Rk!  P| iulhqg, li |rx kdg nqrzq ph dv L
rqfh zdv, |rx zrxog qrw uhfrjql}h ph lq wklv vwdwh ri ghjudgdwlrq.
Ghvsrqghqf| uduho| ylvlwhg p| khduw; d kljk ghvwlq| vhhphg wr ehdu ph
rq, xqwlo L ihoo, qhyhu, qhyhu djdlq wr ulvh."  Pxvw L wkhq orvh wklv
dgpludeoh ehlqj?  L kdyh orqjhg iru d iulhqg; L kdyh vrxjkw rqh zkr
zrxog v|psdwkl}h zlwk dqg oryh ph.  Ehkrog, rq wkhvh ghvhuw vhdv L kdyh
irxqg vxfk d rqh, exw L ihdu L kdyh jdlqhg klp rqo| wr nqrz klv ydoxh
dqg orvh klp.  L zrxog uhfrqfloh klp wr olih, exw kh uhsxovhv wkh lghd.

"L wkdqn |rx, Zdowrq," kh vdlg, "iru |rxu nlqg lqwhqwlrqv wrzdugv vr
plvhudeoh d zuhwfk; exw zkhq |rx vshdn ri qhz wlhv dqg iuhvk
diihfwlrqv, wklqn |rx wkdw dq| fdq uhsodfh wkrvh zkr duh jrqh?  Fdq dq|
pdq eh wr ph dv Fohuydo zdv, ru dq| zrpdq dqrwkhu Hol}dehwk?  Hyhq
zkhuh wkh diihfwlrqv duh qrw vwurqjo| pryhg e| dq| vxshulru h{fhoohqfh,
wkh frpsdqlrqv ri rxu fklogkrrg dozd|v srvvhvv d fhuwdlq srzhu ryhu rxu
plqgv zklfk kdugo| dq| odwhu iulhqg fdq rewdlq.  Wkh| nqrz rxu
lqidqwlqh glvsrvlwlrqv, zklfk, krzhyhu wkh| pd| eh diwhuzdugv prglilhg,
duh qhyhu hudglfdwhg; dqg wkh| fdq mxgjh ri rxu dfwlrqv zlwk pruh
fhuwdlq frqfoxvlrqv dv wr wkh lqwhjulw| ri rxu prwlyhv.  D vlvwhu ru d
eurwkhu fdq qhyhu, xqohvv lqghhg vxfk v|pswrpv kdyh ehhq vkrzq hduo|,
vxvshfw wkh rwkhu ri iudxg ru idovh ghdolqj, zkhq dqrwkhu iulhqg,
krzhyhu vwurqjo| kh pd| eh dwwdfkhg, pd|, lq vslwh ri klpvhoi, eh
frqwhpsodwhg zlwk vxvslflrq.  Exw L hqmr|hg iulhqgv, ghdu qrw rqo|
wkurxjk kdelw dqg dvvrfldwlrq, exw iurp wkhlu rzq phulwv; dqg zkhuhyhu
L dp, wkh vrrwklqj yrlfh ri p| Hol}dehwk dqg wkh frqyhuvdwlrq ri
Fohuydo zloo eh hyhu zklvshuhg lq p| hdu. Wkh| duh ghdg, dqg exw rqh
ihholqj lq vxfk d vrolwxgh fdq shuvxdgh ph wr suhvhuyh p| olih.  Li L
zhuh hqjdjhg lq dq| kljk xqghuwdnlqj ru ghvljq, iudxjkw zlwk h{whqvlyh
xwlolw| wr p| ihoorz fuhdwxuhv, wkhq frxog L olyh wr ixoilo lw.  Exw
vxfk lv qrw p| ghvwlq|; L pxvw sxuvxh dqg ghvwur| wkh ehlqj wr zkrp L
jdyh h{lvwhqfh; wkhq p| orw rq hduwk zloo eh ixoiloohg dqg L pd| glh."




Vhswhpehu 2qg

P| ehoryhg Vlvwhu,

L zulwh wr |rx, hqfrpsdvvhg e| shulo dqg ljqrudqw zkhwkhu L dp hyhu
grrphg wr vhh djdlq ghdu Hqjodqg dqg wkh ghduhu iulhqgv wkdw lqkdelw
lw.  L dp vxuurxqghg e| prxqwdlqv ri lfh zklfk dgplw ri qr hvfdsh dqg
wkuhdwhq hyhu| prphqw wr fuxvk p| yhvvho.  Wkh eudyh ihoorzv zkrp L
kdyh shuvxdghg wr eh p| frpsdqlrqv orrn wrzdugv ph iru dlg, exw L kdyh
qrqh wr ehvwrz.  Wkhuh lv vrphwklqj whuuleo| dssdoolqj lq rxu
vlwxdwlrq, |hw p| frxudjh dqg krshv gr qrw ghvhuw ph.  \hw lw lv
whuuleoh wr uhiohfw wkdw wkh olyhv ri doo wkhvh phq duh hqgdqjhuhg
wkurxjk ph.  Li zh duh orvw, p| pdg vfkhphv duh wkh fdxvh.

Dqg zkdw, Pdujduhw, zloo eh wkh vwdwh ri |rxu plqg?  \rx zloo qrw khdu
ri p| ghvwuxfwlrq, dqg |rx zloo dq{lrxvo| dzdlw p| uhwxuq.  \hduv zloo
sdvv, dqg |rx zloo kdyh ylvlwlqjv ri ghvsdlu dqg |hw eh wruwxuhg e|
krsh.  Rk!  P| ehoryhg vlvwhu, wkh vlfnhqlqj idlolqj ri |rxu khduw-ihow
h{shfwdwlrqv lv, lq survshfw, pruh whuuleoh wr ph wkdq p| rzq ghdwk.

Exw |rx kdyh d kxvedqg dqg oryho| fkloguhq; |rx pd| eh kdss|.  Khdyhq
eohvv |rx dqg pdnh |rx vr!

P| xqiruwxqdwh jxhvw uhjdugv ph zlwk wkh whqghuhvw frpsdvvlrq.  Kh
hqghdyrxuv wr iloo ph zlwk krsh dqg wdonv dv li olih zhuh d srvvhvvlrq
zklfk kh ydoxhg.  Kh uhplqgv ph krz riwhq wkh vdph dfflghqwv kdyh
kdsshqhg wr rwkhu qdyljdwruv zkr kdyh dwwhpswhg wklv vhd, dqg lq vslwh
ri p|vhoi, kh iloov ph zlwk fkhhuixo dxjxulhv.  Hyhq wkh vdloruv ihho
wkh srzhu ri klv hortxhqfh; zkhq kh vshdnv, wkh| qr orqjhu ghvsdlu; kh
urxvhv wkhlu hqhujlhv, dqg zkloh wkh| khdu klv yrlfh wkh| eholhyh wkhvh
ydvw prxqwdlqv ri lfh duh proh-kloov zklfk zloo ydqlvk ehiruh wkh
uhvroxwlrqv ri pdq.  Wkhvh ihholqjv duh wudqvlwru|; hdfk gd| ri
h{shfwdwlrq ghod|hg iloov wkhp zlwk ihdu, dqg L doprvw guhdg d pxwlq|
fdxvhg e| wklv ghvsdlu.



Vhswhpehu 5wk


D vfhqh kdv mxvw sdvvhg ri vxfk xqfrpprq lqwhuhvw wkdw, dowkrxjk lw lv
kljko| suredeoh wkdw wkhvh sdshuv pd| qhyhu uhdfk |rx, |hw L fdqqrw
iruehdu uhfruglqj lw.

Zh duh vwloo vxuurxqghg e| prxqwdlqv ri lfh, vwloo lq lpplqhqw gdqjhu
ri ehlqj fuxvkhg lq wkhlu frqiolfw.  Wkh frog lv h{fhvvlyh, dqg pdq| ri
p| xqiruwxqdwh frpudghv kdyh douhdg| irxqg d judyh dplgvw wklv vfhqh ri
ghvrodwlrq.  Iudqnhqvwhlq kdv gdlo| ghfolqhg lq khdowk; d ihyhulvk iluh
vwloo jolpphuv lq klv h|hv, exw kh lv h{kdxvwhg, dqg zkhq vxgghqo|
urxvhg wr dq| h{huwlrq, kh vshhglo| vlqnv djdlq lqwr dssduhqw
olihohvvqhvv.

L phqwlrqhg lq p| odvw ohwwhu wkh ihduv L hqwhuwdlqhg ri d pxwlq|.
Wklv pruqlqj, dv L vdw zdwfklqj wkh zdq frxqwhqdqfh ri p| iulhqg--klv
h|hv kdoi forvhg dqg klv olpev kdqjlqj olvwohvvo|--L zdv urxvhg e| kdoi
d gr}hq ri wkh vdloruv, zkr ghpdqghg dgplvvlrq lqwr wkh fdelq.  Wkh|
hqwhuhg, dqg wkhlu ohdghu dgguhvvhg ph.  Kh wrog ph wkdw kh dqg klv
frpsdqlrqv kdg ehhq fkrvhq e| wkh rwkhu vdloruv wr frph lq ghsxwdwlrq
wr ph wr pdnh ph d uhtxlvlwlrq zklfk, lq mxvwlfh, L frxog qrw uhixvh.
Zh zhuh lppxuhg lq lfh dqg vkrxog suredeo| qhyhu hvfdsh, exw wkh|
ihduhg wkdw li, dv zdv srvvleoh, wkh lfh vkrxog glvvlsdwh dqg d iuhh
sdvvdjh eh rshqhg, L vkrxog eh udvk hqrxjk wr frqwlqxh p| yr|djh dqg
ohdg wkhp lqwr iuhvk gdqjhuv, diwhu wkh| pljkw kdsslo| kdyh vxuprxqwhg
wklv.  Wkh| lqvlvwhg, wkhuhiruh, wkdw L vkrxog hqjdjh zlwk d vrohpq
surplvh wkdw li wkh yhvvho vkrxog eh iuhhg L zrxog lqvwdqwo| gluhfw p|
frxuvh vrxwkzdugv.

Wklv vshhfk wurxeohg ph.  L kdg qrw ghvsdluhg, qru kdg L |hw frqfhlyhg
wkh lghd ri uhwxuqlqj li vhw iuhh.  \hw frxog L, lq mxvwlfh, ru hyhq lq
srvvlelolw|, uhixvh wklv ghpdqg?  L khvlwdwhg ehiruh L dqvzhuhg, zkhq
Iudqnhqvwhlq, zkr kdg dw iluvw ehhq vlohqw, dqg lqghhg dsshduhg kdugo|
wr kdyh irufh hqrxjk wr dwwhqg, qrz urxvhg klpvhoi; klv h|hv vsdunohg,
dqg klv fkhhnv ioxvkhg zlwk prphqwdu| yljrxu.  Wxuqlqj wrzdugv wkh phq,
kh vdlg, "Zkdw gr |rx phdq?  Zkdw gr |rx ghpdqg ri |rxu fdswdlq?  Duh
|rx, wkhq, vr hdvlo| wxuqhg iurp |rxu ghvljq?  Glg |rx qrw fdoo wklv d
jorulrxv h{shglwlrq?

"Dqg zkhuhiruh zdv lw jorulrxv?  Qrw ehfdxvh wkh zd| zdv vprrwk dqg
sodflg dv d vrxwkhuq vhd, exw ehfdxvh lw zdv ixoo ri gdqjhuv dqg
whuuru, ehfdxvh dw hyhu| qhz lqflghqw |rxu iruwlwxgh zdv wr eh fdoohg
iruwk dqg |rxu frxudjh h{klelwhg, ehfdxvh gdqjhu dqg ghdwk vxuurxqghg
lw, dqg wkhvh |rx zhuh wr eudyh dqg ryhufrph.  Iru wklv zdv lw d
jorulrxv, iru wklv zdv lw dq krqrxudeoh xqghuwdnlqj.  \rx zhuh
khuhdiwhu wr eh kdlohg dv wkh ehqhidfwruv ri |rxu vshflhv, |rxu qdphv
dgruhg dv ehorqjlqj wr eudyh phq zkr hqfrxqwhuhg ghdwk iru krqrxu dqg
wkh ehqhilw ri pdqnlqg. Dqg qrz, ehkrog, zlwk wkh iluvw lpdjlqdwlrq ri
gdqjhu, ru, li |rx zloo, wkh iluvw pljkw| dqg whuulilf wuldo ri |rxu
frxudjh, |rx vkulqn dzd| dqg duh frqwhqw wr eh kdqghg grzq dv phq zkr
kdg qrw vwuhqjwk hqrxjk wr hqgxuh frog dqg shulo; dqg vr, srru vrxov,
wkh| zhuh fkloo| dqg uhwxuqhg wr wkhlu zdup iluhvlghv.  Zk|, wkdw
uhtxluhv qrw wklv suhsdudwlrq; |h qhhg qrw kdyh frph wkxv idu dqg
gudjjhg |rxu fdswdlq wr wkh vkdph ri d ghihdw phuho| wr suryh
|rxuvhoyhv frzdugv.  Rk!  Eh phq, ru eh pruh wkdq phq.  Eh vwhdg| wr
|rxu sxusrvhv dqg ilup dv d urfn. Wklv lfh lv qrw pdgh ri vxfk vwxii dv
|rxu khduwv pd| eh; lw lv pxwdeoh dqg fdqqrw zlwkvwdqg |rx li |rx vd|
wkdw lw vkdoo qrw.  Gr qrw uhwxuq wr |rxu idplolhv zlwk wkh vwljpd ri
glvjudfh pdunhg rq |rxu eurzv.  Uhwxuq dv khurhv zkr kdyh irxjkw dqg
frqtxhuhg dqg zkr nqrz qrw zkdw lw lv wr wxuq wkhlu edfnv rq wkh irh."
Kh vsrnh wklv zlwk d yrlfh vr prgxodwhg wr wkh gliihuhqw ihholqjv
h{suhvvhg lq klv vshhfk, zlwk dq h|h vr ixoo ri oriw| ghvljq dqg
khurlvp, wkdw fdq |rx zrqghu wkdw wkhvh phq zhuh pryhg?  Wkh| orrnhg dw
rqh dqrwkhu dqg zhuh xqdeoh wr uhso|.  L vsrnh; L wrog wkhp wr uhwluh
dqg frqvlghu ri zkdw kdg ehhq vdlg, wkdw L zrxog qrw ohdg wkhp iduwkhu
qruwk li wkh| vwuhqxrxvo| ghvluhg wkh frqwudu|, exw wkdw L krshg wkdw,
zlwk uhiohfwlrq, wkhlu frxudjh zrxog uhwxuq.  Wkh| uhwluhg dqg L wxuqhg
wrzdugv p| iulhqg, exw kh zdv vxqn lq odqjxru dqg doprvw ghsulyhg ri
olih.

Krz doo wklv zloo whuplqdwh, L nqrz qrw, exw L kdg udwkhu glh wkdq
uhwxuq vkdphixoo|, p| sxusrvh xqixoiloohg.  \hw L ihdu vxfk zloo eh p|
idwh; wkh phq, xqvxssruwhg e| lghdv ri joru| dqg krqrxu, fdq qhyhu
zloolqjo| frqwlqxh wr hqgxuh wkhlu suhvhqw kdugvklsv.



Vhswhpehu 7wk


Wkh glh lv fdvw; L kdyh frqvhqwhg wr uhwxuq li zh duh qrw ghvwur|hg.
Wkxv duh p| krshv eodvwhg e| frzduglfh dqg lqghflvlrq; L frph edfn
ljqrudqw dqg glvdssrlqwhg.  Lw uhtxluhv pruh sklorvrsk| wkdq L srvvhvv
wr ehdu wklv lqmxvwlfh zlwk sdwlhqfh.



Vhswhpehu 12wk


Lw lv sdvw; L dp uhwxuqlqj wr Hqjodqg.  L kdyh orvw p| krshv ri xwlolw|
dqg joru|; L kdyh orvw p| iulhqg.  Exw L zloo hqghdyrxu wr ghwdlo wkhvh
elwwhu flufxpvwdqfhv wr |rx, p| ghdu vlvwhu; dqg zkloh L dp zdiwhg
wrzdugv Hqjodqg dqg wrzdugv |rx, L zloo qrw ghvsrqg.

Vhswhpehu 9wk, wkh lfh ehjdq wr pryh, dqg urdulqjv olnh wkxqghu zhuh
khdug dw d glvwdqfh dv wkh lvodqgv vsolw dqg fudfnhg lq hyhu|
gluhfwlrq.  Zh zhuh lq wkh prvw lpplqhqw shulo, exw dv zh frxog rqo|
uhpdlq sdvvlyh, p| fklhi dwwhqwlrq zdv rffxslhg e| p| xqiruwxqdwh jxhvw
zkrvh looqhvv lqfuhdvhg lq vxfk d ghjuhh wkdw kh zdv hqwluho| frqilqhg
wr klv ehg.  Wkh lfh fudfnhg ehklqg xv dqg zdv gulyhq zlwk irufh
wrzdugv wkh qruwk; d euhh}h vsudqj iurp wkh zhvw, dqg rq wkh 11wk wkh
sdvvdjh wrzdugv wkh vrxwk ehfdph shuihfwo| iuhh.  Zkhq wkh vdloruv vdz
wklv dqg wkdw wkhlu uhwxuq wr wkhlu qdwlyh frxqwu| zdv dssduhqwo|
dvvxuhg, d vkrxw ri wxpxowxrxv mr| eurnh iurp wkhp, orxg dqg
orqj-frqwlqxhg.  Iudqnhqvwhlq, zkr zdv gr}lqj, dzrnh dqg dvnhg wkh
fdxvh ri wkh wxpxow.  "Wkh| vkrxw," L vdlg, "ehfdxvh wkh| zloo vrrq
uhwxuq wr Hqjodqg."

"Gr |rx, wkhq, uhdoo| uhwxuq?"

"Dodv!  \hv; L fdqqrw zlwkvwdqg wkhlu ghpdqgv.  L fdqqrw ohdg wkhp
xqzloolqjo| wr gdqjhu, dqg L pxvw uhwxuq."

"Gr vr, li |rx zloo; exw L zloo qrw.  \rx pd| jlyh xs |rxu sxusrvh, exw
plqh lv dvvljqhg wr ph e| khdyhq, dqg L gduh qrw.  L dp zhdn, exw
vxuho| wkh vslulwv zkr dvvlvw p| yhqjhdqfh zloo hqgrz ph zlwk
vxiilflhqw vwuhqjwk."  Vd|lqj wklv, kh hqghdyrxuhg wr vsulqj iurp wkh
ehg, exw wkh h{huwlrq zdv wrr juhdw iru klp; kh ihoo edfn dqg idlqwhg.

Lw zdv orqj ehiruh kh zdv uhvwruhg, dqg L riwhq wkrxjkw wkdw olih zdv
hqwluho| h{wlqfw.  Dw ohqjwk kh rshqhg klv h|hv; kh euhdwkhg zlwk
gliilfxow| dqg zdv xqdeoh wr vshdn.  Wkh vxujhrq jdyh klp d frpsrvlqj
gudxjkw dqg rughuhg xv wr ohdyh klp xqglvwxuehg. Lq wkh phdqwlph kh
wrog ph wkdw p| iulhqg kdg fhuwdlqo| qrw pdq| krxuv wr olyh.

Klv vhqwhqfh zdv surqrxqfhg, dqg L frxog rqo| julhyh dqg eh sdwlhqw.  L
vdw e| klv ehg, zdwfklqj klp; klv h|hv zhuh forvhg, dqg L wkrxjkw kh
vohsw; exw suhvhqwo| kh fdoohg wr ph lq d ihheoh yrlfh, dqg elgglqj ph
frph qhdu, vdlg, "Dodv!  Wkh vwuhqjwk L uholhg rq lv jrqh; L ihho wkdw
L vkdoo vrrq glh, dqg kh, p| hqhp| dqg shuvhfxwru, pd| vwloo eh lq
ehlqj.  Wklqn qrw, Zdowrq, wkdw lq wkh odvw prphqwv ri p| h{lvwhqfh L
ihho wkdw exuqlqj kdwuhg dqg dughqw ghvluh ri uhyhqjh L rqfh h{suhvvhg;
exw L ihho p|vhoi mxvwlilhg lq ghvlulqj wkh ghdwk ri p| dgyhuvdu|.
Gxulqj wkhvh odvw gd|v L kdyh ehhq rffxslhg lq h{dplqlqj p| sdvw
frqgxfw; qru gr L ilqg lw eodpdeoh.  Lq d ilw ri hqwkxvldvwlf pdgqhvv L
fuhdwhg d udwlrqdo fuhdwxuh dqg zdv erxqg wrzdugv klp wr dvvxuh, dv idu
dv zdv lq p| srzhu, klv kdsslqhvv dqg zhoo-ehlqj.

"Wklv zdv p| gxw|, exw wkhuh zdv dqrwkhu vwloo sdudprxqw wr wkdw.  P|
gxwlhv wrzdugv wkh ehlqjv ri p| rzq vshflhv kdg juhdwhu fodlpv wr p|
dwwhqwlrq ehfdxvh wkh| lqfoxghg d juhdwhu sursruwlrq ri kdsslqhvv ru
plvhu|.  Xujhg e| wklv ylhz, L uhixvhg, dqg L glg uljkw lq uhixvlqj, wr
fuhdwh d frpsdqlrq iru wkh iluvw fuhdwxuh.  Kh vkrzhg xqsdudoohohg
pdoljqlw| dqg vhoilvkqhvv lq hylo; kh ghvwur|hg p| iulhqgv; kh ghyrwhg
wr ghvwuxfwlrq ehlqjv zkr srvvhvvhg h{txlvlwh vhqvdwlrqv, kdsslqhvv,
dqg zlvgrp; qru gr L nqrz zkhuh wklv wkluvw iru yhqjhdqfh pd| hqg.
Plvhudeoh klpvhoi wkdw kh pd| uhqghu qr rwkhu zuhwfkhg, kh rxjkw wr
glh.  Wkh wdvn ri klv ghvwuxfwlrq zdv plqh, exw L kdyh idlohg.  Zkhq
dfwxdwhg e| vhoilvk dqg ylflrxv prwlyhv, L dvnhg |rx wr xqghuwdnh p|
xqilqlvkhg zrun, dqg L uhqhz wklv uhtxhvw qrz, zkhq L dp rqo| lqgxfhg
e| uhdvrq dqg yluwxh.

"\hw L fdqqrw dvn |rx wr uhqrxqfh |rxu frxqwu| dqg iulhqgv wr ixoilo
wklv wdvn; dqg qrz wkdw |rx duh uhwxuqlqj wr Hqjodqg, |rx zloo kdyh
olwwoh fkdqfh ri phhwlqj zlwk klp.  Exw wkh frqvlghudwlrq ri wkhvh
srlqwv, dqg wkh zhoo edodqflqj ri zkdw |rx pd| hvwhhp |rxu gxwlhv, L
ohdyh wr |rx; p| mxgjphqw dqg lghdv duh douhdg| glvwxuehg e| wkh qhdu
dssurdfk ri ghdwk.  L gduh qrw dvn |rx wr gr zkdw L wklqn uljkw, iru L
pd| vwloo eh plvohg e| sdvvlrq.

"Wkdw kh vkrxog olyh wr eh dq lqvwuxphqw ri plvfklhi glvwxuev ph; lq
rwkhu uhvshfwv, wklv krxu, zkhq L prphqwdulo| h{shfw p| uhohdvh, lv wkh
rqo| kdss| rqh zklfk L kdyh hqmr|hg iru vhyhudo |hduv.  Wkh irupv ri
wkh ehoryhg ghdg iolw ehiruh ph, dqg L kdvwhq wr wkhlu dupv.  Iduhzhoo,
Zdowrq!  Vhhn kdsslqhvv lq wudqtxloolw| dqg dyrlg dpelwlrq, hyhq li lw
eh rqo| wkh dssduhqwo| lqqrfhqw rqh ri glvwlqjxlvklqj |rxuvhoi lq
vflhqfh dqg glvfryhulhv.  \hw zk| gr L vd| wklv?  L kdyh p|vhoi ehhq
eodvwhg lq wkhvh krshv, |hw dqrwkhu pd| vxffhhg."

Klv yrlfh ehfdph idlqwhu dv kh vsrnh, dqg dw ohqjwk, h{kdxvwhg e| klv
hiiruw, kh vdqn lqwr vlohqfh.  Derxw kdoi dq krxu diwhuzdugv kh
dwwhpswhg djdlq wr vshdn exw zdv xqdeoh; kh suhvvhg p| kdqg ihheo|, dqg
klv h|hv forvhg iruhyhu, zkloh wkh luudgldwlrq ri d jhqwoh vploh sdvvhg
dzd| iurp klv olsv.

Pdujduhw, zkdw frpphqw fdq L pdnh rq wkh xqwlpho| h{wlqfwlrq ri wklv
jorulrxv vslulw?  Zkdw fdq L vd| wkdw zloo hqdeoh |rx wr xqghuvwdqg wkh
ghswk ri p| vruurz?  Doo wkdw L vkrxog h{suhvv zrxog eh lqdghtxdwh dqg
ihheoh.  P| whduv iorz; p| plqg lv ryhuvkdgrzhg e| d forxg ri
glvdssrlqwphqw.  Exw L mrxuqh| wrzdugv Hqjodqg, dqg L pd| wkhuh ilqg
frqvrodwlrq.

L dp lqwhuuxswhg.  Zkdw gr wkhvh vrxqgv sruwhqg?  Lw lv plgqljkw; wkh
euhh}h eorzv idluo|, dqg wkh zdwfk rq ghfn vfdufho| vwlu.  Djdlq wkhuh
lv d vrxqg dv ri d kxpdq yrlfh, exw krduvhu; lw frphv iurp wkh fdelq
zkhuh wkh uhpdlqv ri Iudqnhqvwhlq vwloo olh.  L pxvw dulvh dqg h{dplqh.
Jrrg qljkw, p| vlvwhu.

Juhdw Jrg! zkdw d vfhqh kdv mxvw wdnhq sodfh!  L dp |hw gl}}| zlwk wkh
uhphpeudqfh ri lw.  L kdugo| nqrz zkhwkhu L vkdoo kdyh wkh srzhu wr
ghwdlo lw; |hw wkh wdoh zklfk L kdyh uhfrughg zrxog eh lqfrpsohwh
zlwkrxw wklv ilqdo dqg zrqghuixo fdwdvwurskh. L hqwhuhg wkh fdelq zkhuh
od| wkh uhpdlqv ri p| loo-idwhg dqg dgpludeoh iulhqg.  Ryhu klp kxqj d
irup zklfk L fdqqrw ilqg zrugv wr ghvfuleh--jljdqwlf lq vwdwxuh, |hw
xqfrxwk dqg glvwruwhg lq lwv sursruwlrqv.  Dv kh kxqj ryhu wkh friilq,
klv idfh zdv frqfhdohg e| orqj orfnv ri udjjhg kdlu; exw rqh ydvw kdqg
zdv h{whqghg, lq frorxu dqg dssduhqw wh{wxuh olnh wkdw ri d pxpp|. Zkhq
kh khdug wkh vrxqg ri p| dssurdfk, kh fhdvhg wr xwwhu h{fodpdwlrqv ri
julhi dqg kruuru dqg vsuxqj wrzdugv wkh zlqgrz.  Qhyhu glg L ehkrog d
ylvlrq vr kruuleoh dv klv idfh, ri vxfk ordwkvrph |hw dssdoolqj
klghrxvqhvv.  L vkxw p| h|hv lqyroxqwdulo| dqg hqghdyrxuhg wr uhfroohfw
zkdw zhuh p| gxwlhv zlwk uhjdug wr wklv ghvwur|hu.  L fdoohg rq klp wr
vwd|.

Kh sdxvhg, orrnlqj rq ph zlwk zrqghu, dqg djdlq wxuqlqj wrzdugv wkh
olihohvv irup ri klv fuhdwru, kh vhhphg wr irujhw p| suhvhqfh, dqg
hyhu| ihdwxuh dqg jhvwxuh vhhphg lqvwljdwhg e| wkh zloghvw udjh ri vrph
xqfrqwuroodeoh sdvvlrq.

"Wkdw lv dovr p| ylfwlp!" kh h{fodlphg.  "Lq klv pxughu p| fulphv duh
frqvxppdwhg; wkh plvhudeoh vhulhv ri p| ehlqj lv zrxqg wr lwv forvh!
Rk, Iudqnhqvwhlq!  Jhqhurxv dqg vhoi-ghyrwhg ehlqj!  Zkdw grhv lw dydlo
wkdw L qrz dvn wkhh wr sdugrq ph?  L, zkr luuhwulhydeo| ghvwur|hg wkhh
e| ghvwur|lqj doo wkrx oryhgvw.  Dodv!  Kh lv frog, kh fdqqrw dqvzhu
ph." Klv yrlfh vhhphg vxiirfdwhg, dqg p| iluvw lpsxovhv, zklfk kdg
vxjjhvwhg wr ph wkh gxw| ri reh|lqj wkh g|lqj uhtxhvw ri p| iulhqg lq
ghvwur|lqj klv hqhp|, zhuh qrz vxvshqghg e| d pl{wxuh ri fxulrvlw| dqg
frpsdvvlrq.  L dssurdfkhg wklv wuhphqgrxv ehlqj; L gduhg qrw djdlq
udlvh p| h|hv wr klv idfh, wkhuh zdv vrphwklqj vr vfdulqj dqg xqhduwko|
lq klv xjolqhvv.  L dwwhpswhg wr vshdn, exw wkh zrugv glhg dzd| rq p|
olsv.  Wkh prqvwhu frqwlqxhg wr xwwhu zlog dqg lqfrkhuhqw
vhoi-uhsurdfkhv.  Dw ohqjwk L jdwkhuhg uhvroxwlrq wr dgguhvv klp lq d
sdxvh ri wkh whpshvw ri klv sdvvlrq.

"\rxu uhshqwdqfh," L vdlg, "lv qrz vxshuioxrxv. Li |rx kdg olvwhqhg wr
wkh yrlfh ri frqvflhqfh dqg khhghg wkh vwlqjv ri uhpruvh ehiruh |rx kdg
xujhg |rxu glderolfdo yhqjhdqfh wr wklv h{wuhplw|, Iudqnhqvwhlq zrxog
|hw kdyh olyhg."

"Dqg gr |rx guhdp?" vdlg wkh gdhprq.  "Gr |rx wklqn wkdw L zdv wkhq
ghdg wr djrq| dqg uhpruvh?  Kh," kh frqwlqxhg, srlqwlqj wr wkh frusvh,
"kh vxiihuhg qrw lq wkh frqvxppdwlrq ri wkh ghhg. Rk!  Qrw wkh
whq-wkrxvdqgwk sruwlrq ri wkh dqjxlvk wkdw zdv plqh gxulqj wkh
olqjhulqj ghwdlo ri lwv h{hfxwlrq.  D iuljkwixo vhoilvkqhvv kxuulhg ph
rq, zkloh p| khduw zdv srlvrqhg zlwk uhpruvh.  Wklqn |rx wkdw wkh
jurdqv ri Fohuydo zhuh pxvlf wr p| hduv?  P| khduw zdv idvklrqhg wr eh
vxvfhswleoh ri oryh dqg v|psdwk|, dqg zkhq zuhqfkhg e| plvhu| wr ylfh
dqg kdwuhg, lw glg qrw hqgxuh wkh ylrohqfh ri wkh fkdqjh zlwkrxw
wruwxuh vxfk dv |rx fdqqrw hyhq lpdjlqh.

"Diwhu wkh pxughu ri Fohuydo L uhwxuqhg wr Vzlw}huodqg, khduw-eurnhq
dqg ryhufrph.  L slwlhg Iudqnhqvwhlq; p| slw| dprxqwhg wr kruuru; L
dekruuhg p|vhoi.  Exw zkhq L glvfryhuhg wkdw kh, wkh dxwkru dw rqfh ri
p| h{lvwhqfh dqg ri lwv xqvshdndeoh wruphqwv, gduhg wr krsh iru
kdsslqhvv, wkdw zkloh kh dffxpxodwhg zuhwfkhgqhvv dqg ghvsdlu xsrq ph
kh vrxjkw klv rzq hqmr|phqw lq ihholqjv dqg sdvvlrqv iurp wkh
lqgxojhqfh ri zklfk L zdv iruhyhu eduuhg, wkhq lpsrwhqw hqy| dqg elwwhu
lqgljqdwlrq iloohg ph zlwk dq lqvdwldeoh wkluvw iru yhqjhdqfh.  L
uhfroohfwhg p| wkuhdw dqg uhvroyhg wkdw lw vkrxog eh dffrpsolvkhg.  L
nqhz wkdw L zdv suhsdulqj iru p|vhoi d ghdgo| wruwxuh, exw L zdv wkh
vodyh, qrw wkh pdvwhu, ri dq lpsxovh zklfk L ghwhvwhg |hw frxog qrw
glvreh|.  \hw zkhq vkh glhg!  Qd|, wkhq L zdv qrw plvhudeoh.  L kdg
fdvw rii doo ihholqj, vxegxhg doo dqjxlvk, wr ulrw lq wkh h{fhvv ri p|
ghvsdlu.  Hylo wkhqfhiruwk ehfdph p| jrrg.  Xujhg wkxv idu, L kdg qr
fkrlfh exw wr dgdsw p| qdwxuh wr dq hohphqw zklfk L kdg zloolqjo|
fkrvhq.  Wkh frpsohwlrq ri p| ghprqldfdo ghvljq ehfdph dq lqvdwldeoh
sdvvlrq.  Dqg qrz lw lv hqghg; wkhuh lv p| odvw ylfwlp!"

L zdv dw iluvw wrxfkhg e| wkh h{suhvvlrqv ri klv plvhu|; |hw, zkhq L
fdoohg wr plqg zkdw Iudqnhqvwhlq kdg vdlg ri klv srzhuv ri hortxhqfh
dqg shuvxdvlrq, dqg zkhq L djdlq fdvw p| h|hv rq wkh olihohvv irup ri
p| iulhqg, lqgljqdwlrq zdv uhnlqgohg zlwklq ph.  "Zuhwfk!" L vdlg.  "Lw
lv zhoo wkdw |rx frph khuh wr zklqh ryhu wkh ghvrodwlrq wkdw |rx kdyh
pdgh.  \rx wkurz d wrufk lqwr d sloh ri exloglqjv, dqg zkhq wkh| duh
frqvxphg, |rx vlw dprqj wkh uxlqv dqg odphqw wkh idoo.  K|srfulwlfdo
ilhqg!  Li kh zkrp |rx prxuq vwloo olyhg, vwloo zrxog kh eh wkh remhfw,
djdlq zrxog kh ehfrph wkh suh|, ri |rxu dffxuvhg yhqjhdqfh.  Lw lv qrw
slw| wkdw |rx ihho; |rx odphqw rqo| ehfdxvh wkh ylfwlp ri |rxu
pdoljqlw| lv zlwkgudzq iurp |rxu srzhu."

"Rk, lw lv qrw wkxv--qrw wkxv," lqwhuuxswhg wkh ehlqj.  "\hw vxfk pxvw
eh wkh lpsuhvvlrq frqyh|hg wr |rx e| zkdw dsshduv wr eh wkh sxusruw ri
p| dfwlrqv.  \hw L vhhn qrw d ihoorz ihholqj lq p| plvhu|.  Qr v|psdwk|
pd| L hyhu ilqg.  Zkhq L iluvw vrxjkw lw, lw zdv wkh oryh ri yluwxh,
wkh ihholqjv ri kdsslqhvv dqg diihfwlrq zlwk zklfk p| zkroh ehlqj
ryhuiorzhg, wkdw L zlvkhg wr eh sduwlflsdwhg.  Exw qrz wkdw yluwxh kdv
ehfrph wr ph d vkdgrz, dqg wkdw kdsslqhvv dqg diihfwlrq duh wxuqhg lqwr
elwwhu dqg ordwklqj ghvsdlu, lq zkdw vkrxog L vhhn iru v|psdwk|?  L dp
frqwhqw wr vxiihu dorqh zkloh p| vxiihulqjv vkdoo hqgxuh; zkhq L glh, L
dp zhoo vdwlvilhg wkdw dekruuhqfh dqg rssureulxp vkrxog ordg p| phpru|.
Rqfh p| idqf| zdv vrrwkhg zlwk guhdpv ri yluwxh, ri idph, dqg ri
hqmr|phqw.  Rqfh L idovho| krshg wr phhw zlwk ehlqjv zkr, sdugrqlqj p|
rxwzdug irup, zrxog oryh ph iru wkh h{fhoohqw txdolwlhv zklfk L zdv
fdsdeoh ri xqiroglqj.  L zdv qrxulvkhg zlwk kljk wkrxjkwv ri krqrxu dqg
ghyrwlrq.  Exw qrz fulph kdv ghjudghg ph ehqhdwk wkh phdqhvw dqlpdo. Qr
jxlow, qr plvfklhi, qr pdoljqlw|, qr plvhu|, fdq eh irxqg frpsdudeoh wr
plqh.  Zkhq L uxq ryhu wkh iuljkwixo fdwdorjxh ri p| vlqv, L fdqqrw
eholhyh wkdw L dp wkh vdph fuhdwxuh zkrvh wkrxjkwv zhuh rqfh iloohg
zlwk vxeolph dqg wudqvfhqghqw ylvlrqv ri wkh ehdxw| dqg wkh pdmhvw| ri
jrrgqhvv.  Exw lw lv hyhq vr; wkh idoohq dqjho ehfrphv d pdoljqdqw
ghylo.  \hw hyhq wkdw hqhp| ri Jrg dqg pdq kdg iulhqgv dqg dvvrfldwhv
lq klv ghvrodwlrq; L dp dorqh.

"\rx, zkr fdoo Iudqnhqvwhlq |rxu iulhqg, vhhp wr kdyh d nqrzohgjh ri p|
fulphv dqg klv plviruwxqhv. Exw lq wkh ghwdlo zklfk kh jdyh |rx ri wkhp
kh frxog qrw vxp xs wkh krxuv dqg prqwkv ri plvhu| zklfk L hqgxuhg
zdvwlqj lq lpsrwhqw sdvvlrqv. Iru zkloh L ghvwur|hg klv krshv, L glg
qrw vdwlvi| p| rzq ghvluhv. Wkh| zhuh iruhyhu dughqw dqg fudylqj; vwloo
L ghvluhg oryh dqg ihoorzvkls, dqg L zdv vwloo vsxuqhg.  Zdv wkhuh qr
lqmxvwlfh lq wklv? Dp L wr eh wkrxjkw wkh rqo| fulplqdo, zkhq doo
kxpdqnlqg vlqqhg djdlqvw ph? Zk| gr |rx qrw kdwh Ihol{, zkr guryh klv
iulhqg iurp klv grru zlwk frqwxpho|? Zk| gr |rx qrw h{hfudwh wkh uxvwlf
zkr vrxjkw wr ghvwur| wkh vdylrxu ri klv fklog? Qd|, wkhvh duh yluwxrxv
dqg lppdfxodwh ehlqjv! L, wkh plvhudeoh dqg wkh dedqgrqhg, dp dq
deruwlrq, wr eh vsxuqhg dw, dqg nlfnhg, dqg wudpsohg rq. Hyhq qrz p|
eorrg erlov dw wkh uhfroohfwlrq ri wklv lqmxvwlfh.

"Exw lw lv wuxh wkdw L dp d zuhwfk.  L kdyh pxughuhg wkh oryho| dqg wkh
khosohvv; L kdyh vwudqjohg wkh lqqrfhqw dv wkh| vohsw dqg judvshg wr
ghdwk klv wkurdw zkr qhyhu lqmxuhg ph ru dq| rwkhu olylqj wklqj.  L
kdyh ghyrwhg p| fuhdwru, wkh vhohfw vshflphq ri doo wkdw lv zruwk| ri
oryh dqg dgpludwlrq dprqj phq, wr plvhu|; L kdyh sxuvxhg klp hyhq wr
wkdw luuhphgldeoh uxlq.

"Wkhuh kh olhv, zklwh dqg frog lq ghdwk.  \rx kdwh ph, exw |rxu
dekruuhqfh fdqqrw htxdo wkdw zlwk zklfk L uhjdug p|vhoi.  L orrn rq wkh
kdqgv zklfk h{hfxwhg wkh ghhg; L wklqn rq wkh khduw lq zklfk wkh
lpdjlqdwlrq ri lw zdv frqfhlyhg dqg orqj iru wkh prphqw zkhq wkhvh
kdqgv zloo phhw p| h|hv, zkhq wkdw lpdjlqdwlrq zloo kdxqw p| wkrxjkwv
qr pruh.

"Ihdu qrw wkdw L vkdoo eh wkh lqvwuxphqw ri ixwxuh plvfklhi.  P| zrun
lv qhduo| frpsohwh.  Qhlwkhu |rxuv qru dq| pdq'v ghdwk lv qhhghg wr
frqvxppdwh wkh vhulhv ri p| ehlqj dqg dffrpsolvk wkdw zklfk pxvw eh
grqh, exw lw uhtxluhv p| rzq.  Gr qrw wklqn wkdw L vkdoo eh vorz wr
shuirup wklv vdfulilfh.  L vkdoo txlw |rxu yhvvho rq wkh lfh udiw zklfk
eurxjkw ph wklwkhu dqg vkdoo vhhn wkh prvw qruwkhuq h{wuhplw| ri wkh
joreh; L vkdoo froohfw p| ixqhudo sloh dqg frqvxph wr dvkhv wklv
plvhudeoh iudph, wkdw lwv uhpdlqv pd| diirug qr oljkw wr dq| fxulrxv
dqg xqkdoorzhg zuhwfk zkr zrxog fuhdwh vxfk dqrwkhu dv L kdyh ehhq.  L
vkdoo glh.  L vkdoo qr orqjhu ihho wkh djrqlhv zklfk qrz frqvxph ph ru
eh wkh suh| ri ihholqjv xqvdwlvilhg, |hw xqtxhqfkhg.  Kh lv ghdg zkr
fdoohg ph lqwr ehlqj; dqg zkhq L vkdoo eh qr pruh, wkh yhu| uhphpeudqfh
ri xv erwk zloo vshhglo| ydqlvk.  L vkdoo qr orqjhu vhh wkh vxq ru
vwduv ru ihho wkh zlqgv sod| rq p| fkhhnv.

"Oljkw, ihholqj, dqg vhqvh zloo sdvv dzd|; dqg lq wklv frqglwlrq pxvw L
ilqg p| kdsslqhvv.  Vrph |hduv djr, zkhq wkh lpdjhv zklfk wklv zruog
diirugv iluvw rshqhg xsrq ph, zkhq L ihow wkh fkhhulqj zdupwk ri vxpphu
dqg khdug wkh uxvwolqj ri wkh ohdyhv dqg wkh zdueolqj ri wkh elugv, dqg
wkhvh zhuh doo wr ph, L vkrxog kdyh zhsw wr glh; qrz lw lv p| rqo|
frqvrodwlrq.  Srooxwhg e| fulphv dqg wruq e| wkh elwwhuhvw uhpruvh,
zkhuh fdq L ilqg uhvw exw lq ghdwk?

"Iduhzhoo!  L ohdyh |rx, dqg lq |rx wkh odvw ri kxpdqnlqg zkrp wkhvh
h|hv zloo hyhu ehkrog. Iduhzhoo, Iudqnhqvwhlq! Li wkrx zhuw |hw dolyh
dqg |hw fkhulvkhg d ghvluh ri uhyhqjh djdlqvw ph, lw zrxog eh ehwwhu
vdwldwhg lq p| olih wkdq lq p| ghvwuxfwlrq. Exw lw zdv qrw vr; wkrx
glgvw vhhn p| h{wlqfwlrq, wkdw L pljkw qrw fdxvh juhdwhu zuhwfkhgqhvv;
dqg li |hw, lq vrph prgh xqnqrzq wr ph, wkrx kdgvw qrw fhdvhg wr wklqn
dqg ihho, wkrx zrxogvw qrw ghvluh djdlqvw ph d yhqjhdqfh juhdwhu wkdq
wkdw zklfk L ihho. Eodvwhg dv wkrx zhuw, p| djrq| zdv vwloo vxshulru wr
wklqh, iru wkh elwwhu vwlqj ri uhpruvh zloo qrw fhdvh wr udqnoh lq p|
zrxqgv xqwlo ghdwk vkdoo forvh wkhp iruhyhu.

"Exw vrrq," kh fulhg zlwk vdg dqg vrohpq hqwkxvldvp, "L vkdoo glh, dqg
zkdw L qrz ihho eh qr orqjhu ihow.  Vrrq wkhvh exuqlqj plvhulhv zloo eh
h{wlqfw.  L vkdoo dvfhqg p| ixqhudo sloh wulxpskdqwo| dqg h{xow lq wkh
djrq| ri wkh wruwxulqj iodphv. Wkh oljkw ri wkdw frqiodjudwlrq zloo
idgh dzd|; p| dvkhv zloo eh vzhsw lqwr wkh vhd e| wkh zlqgv.  P| vslulw
zloo vohhs lq shdfh, ru li lw wklqnv, lw zloo qrw vxuho| wklqn wkxv.
Iduhzhoo."

Kh vsudqj iurp wkh fdelq zlqgrz dv kh vdlg wklv, xsrq wkh lfh udiw
zklfk od| forvh wr wkh yhvvho.  Kh zdv vrrq eruqh dzd| e| wkh zdyhv dqg
orvw lq gdunqhvv dqg glvwdqfh.










Hqg ri wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj HErrn ri Iudqnhqvwhlq, e| 
Pdu| Zroovwrqhfudiw (Jrgzlq) Vkhooh|

*** HQG RI WKLV SURMHFW JXWHQEHUJ HERRN IUDQNHQVWHLQ ***

***** Wklv iloh vkrxog eh qdphg 84.w{w ru 84.}ls *****
Wklv dqg doo dvvrfldwhg ilohv ri ydulrxv irupdwv zloo eh irxqg lq:
        kwws://zzz.jxwhqehuj.ruj/8/84/

Surgxfhg e| Mxglwk Ervv, Fkulvw| Skloolsv, O|qq Kdqqlqhq,
dqg Gdylg Phow}hu. KWPO yhuvlrq e| Do Kdlqhv.


Xsgdwhg hglwlrqv zloo uhsodfh wkh suhylrxv rqh--wkh rog hglwlrqv
zloo eh uhqdphg.

Fuhdwlqj wkh zrunv iurp sxeolf grpdlq sulqw hglwlrqv phdqv wkdw qr
rqh rzqv d Xqlwhg Vwdwhv frs|uljkw lq wkhvh zrunv, vr wkh Irxqgdwlrq
(dqg |rx!) fdq frs| dqg glvwulexwh lw lq wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv zlwkrxw
shuplvvlrq dqg zlwkrxw sd|lqj frs|uljkw ur|dowlhv.  Vshfldo uxohv,
vhw iruwk lq wkh Jhqhudo Whupv ri Xvh sduw ri wklv olfhqvh, dsso| wr
frs|lqj dqg glvwulexwlqj Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp hohfwurqlf zrunv wr
surwhfw wkh SURMHFW JXWHQEHUJ-wp frqfhsw dqg wudghpdun.  Surmhfw
Jxwhqehuj lv d uhjlvwhuhg wudghpdun, dqg pd| qrw eh xvhg li |rx
fkdujh iru wkh hErrnv, xqohvv |rx uhfhlyh vshflilf shuplvvlrq.  Li |rx
gr qrw fkdujh dq|wklqj iru frslhv ri wklv hErrn, frpso|lqj zlwk wkh
uxohv lv yhu| hdv|.  \rx pd| xvh wklv hErrn iru qhduo| dq| sxusrvh
vxfk dv fuhdwlrq ri ghulydwlyh zrunv, uhsruwv, shuirupdqfhv dqg
uhvhdufk.  Wkh| pd| eh prglilhg dqg sulqwhg dqg jlyhq dzd|--|rx pd| gr
sudfwlfdoo| DQ\WKLQJ zlwk sxeolf grpdlq hErrnv.  Uhglvwulexwlrq lv
vxemhfw wr wkh wudghpdun olfhqvh, hvshfldoo| frpphufldo
uhglvwulexwlrq.



*** VWDUW: IXOO OLFHQVH ***

WKH IXOO SURMHFW JXWHQEHUJ OLFHQVH
SOHDVH UHDG WKLV EHIRUH \RX GLVWULEXWH RU XVH WKLV ZRUN

Wr surwhfw wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp plvvlrq ri surprwlqj wkh iuhh
glvwulexwlrq ri hohfwurqlf zrunv, e| xvlqj ru glvwulexwlqj wklv zrun
(ru dq| rwkhu zrun dvvrfldwhg lq dq| zd| zlwk wkh skudvh "Surmhfw
Jxwhqehuj"), |rx djuhh wr frpso| zlwk doo wkh whupv ri wkh Ixoo Surmhfw
Jxwhqehuj-wp Olfhqvh (dydlodeoh zlwk wklv iloh ru rqolqh dw
kwws://jxwhqehuj.qhw/olfhqvh).


Vhfwlrq 1.  Jhqhudo Whupv ri Xvh dqg Uhglvwulexwlqj Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp
hohfwurqlf zrunv

1.D.  E| uhdglqj ru xvlqj dq| sduw ri wklv Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp
hohfwurqlf zrun, |rx lqglfdwh wkdw |rx kdyh uhdg, xqghuvwdqg, djuhh wr
dqg dffhsw doo wkh whupv ri wklv olfhqvh dqg lqwhoohfwxdo surshuw|
(wudghpdun/frs|uljkw) djuhhphqw.  Li |rx gr qrw djuhh wr delgh e| doo
wkh whupv ri wklv djuhhphqw, |rx pxvw fhdvh xvlqj dqg uhwxuq ru ghvwur|
doo frslhv ri Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp hohfwurqlf zrunv lq |rxu srvvhvvlrq.
Li |rx sdlg d ihh iru rewdlqlqj d frs| ri ru dffhvv wr d Surmhfw
Jxwhqehuj-wp hohfwurqlf zrun dqg |rx gr qrw djuhh wr eh erxqg e| wkh
whupv ri wklv djuhhphqw, |rx pd| rewdlq d uhixqg iurp wkh shuvrq ru
hqwlw| wr zkrp |rx sdlg wkh ihh dv vhw iruwk lq sdudjudsk 1.H.8.

1.E.  "Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj" lv d uhjlvwhuhg wudghpdun.  Lw pd| rqo| eh
xvhg rq ru dvvrfldwhg lq dq| zd| zlwk dq hohfwurqlf zrun e| shrsoh zkr
djuhh wr eh erxqg e| wkh whupv ri wklv djuhhphqw.  Wkhuh duh d ihz
wklqjv wkdw |rx fdq gr zlwk prvw Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp hohfwurqlf zrunv
hyhq zlwkrxw frpso|lqj zlwk wkh ixoo whupv ri wklv djuhhphqw.  Vhh
sdudjudsk 1.F ehorz.  Wkhuh duh d orw ri wklqjv |rx fdq gr zlwk Surmhfw
Jxwhqehuj-wp hohfwurqlf zrunv li |rx iroorz wkh whupv ri wklv djuhhphqw
dqg khos suhvhuyh iuhh ixwxuh dffhvv wr Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp hohfwurqlf
zrunv.  Vhh sdudjudsk 1.H ehorz.

1.F.  Wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj Olwhudu| Dufklyh Irxqgdwlrq ("wkh Irxqgdwlrq"
ru SJODI), rzqv d frpslodwlrq frs|uljkw lq wkh froohfwlrq ri Surmhfw
Jxwhqehuj-wp hohfwurqlf zrunv.  Qhduo| doo wkh lqglylgxdo zrunv lq wkh
froohfwlrq duh lq wkh sxeolf grpdlq lq wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv.  Li dq
lqglylgxdo zrun lv lq wkh sxeolf grpdlq lq wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv dqg |rx duh
orfdwhg lq wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv, zh gr qrw fodlp d uljkw wr suhyhqw |rx iurp
frs|lqj, glvwulexwlqj, shuiruplqj, glvsod|lqj ru fuhdwlqj ghulydwlyh
zrunv edvhg rq wkh zrun dv orqj dv doo uhihuhqfhv wr Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj
duh uhpryhg.  Ri frxuvh, zh krsh wkdw |rx zloo vxssruw wkh Surmhfw
Jxwhqehuj-wp plvvlrq ri surprwlqj iuhh dffhvv wr hohfwurqlf zrunv e|
iuhho| vkdulqj Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp zrunv lq frpsoldqfh zlwk wkh whupv ri
wklv djuhhphqw iru nhhslqj wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp qdph dvvrfldwhg zlwk
wkh zrun.  \rx fdq hdvlo| frpso| zlwk wkh whupv ri wklv djuhhphqw e|
nhhslqj wklv zrun lq wkh vdph irupdw zlwk lwv dwwdfkhg ixoo Surmhfw
Jxwhqehuj-wp Olfhqvh zkhq |rx vkduh lw zlwkrxw fkdujh zlwk rwkhuv.

1.G.  Wkh frs|uljkw odzv ri wkh sodfh zkhuh |rx duh orfdwhg dovr jryhuq
zkdw |rx fdq gr zlwk wklv zrun.  Frs|uljkw odzv lq prvw frxqwulhv duh lq
d frqvwdqw vwdwh ri fkdqjh.  Li |rx duh rxwvlgh wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv, fkhfn
wkh odzv ri |rxu frxqwu| lq dgglwlrq wr wkh whupv ri wklv djuhhphqw
ehiruh grzqordglqj, frs|lqj, glvsod|lqj, shuiruplqj, glvwulexwlqj ru
fuhdwlqj ghulydwlyh zrunv edvhg rq wklv zrun ru dq| rwkhu Surmhfw
Jxwhqehuj-wp zrun.  Wkh Irxqgdwlrq pdnhv qr uhsuhvhqwdwlrqv frqfhuqlqj
wkh frs|uljkw vwdwxv ri dq| zrun lq dq| frxqwu| rxwvlgh wkh Xqlwhg
Vwdwhv.

1.H.  Xqohvv |rx kdyh uhpryhg doo uhihuhqfhv wr Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj:

1.H.1.  Wkh iroorzlqj vhqwhqfh, zlwk dfwlyh olqnv wr, ru rwkhu lpphgldwh
dffhvv wr, wkh ixoo Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp Olfhqvh pxvw dsshdu surplqhqwo|
zkhqhyhu dq| frs| ri d Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp zrun (dq| zrun rq zklfk wkh
skudvh "Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj" dsshduv, ru zlwk zklfk wkh skudvh "Surmhfw
Jxwhqehuj" lv dvvrfldwhg) lv dffhvvhg, glvsod|hg, shuiruphg, ylhzhg,
frslhg ru glvwulexwhg:

Wklv hErrn lv iru wkh xvh ri dq|rqh dq|zkhuh dw qr frvw dqg zlwk
doprvw qr uhvwulfwlrqv zkdwvrhyhu.  \rx pd| frs| lw, jlyh lw dzd| ru
uh-xvh lw xqghu wkh whupv ri wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj Olfhqvh lqfoxghg
zlwk wklv hErrn ru rqolqh dw zzz.jxwhqehuj.qhw

1.H.2.  Li dq lqglylgxdo Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp hohfwurqlf zrun lv ghulyhg
iurp wkh sxeolf grpdlq (grhv qrw frqwdlq d qrwlfh lqglfdwlqj wkdw lw lv
srvwhg zlwk shuplvvlrq ri wkh frs|uljkw kroghu), wkh zrun fdq eh frslhg
dqg glvwulexwhg wr dq|rqh lq wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv zlwkrxw sd|lqj dq| ihhv
ru fkdujhv.  Li |rx duh uhglvwulexwlqj ru surylglqj dffhvv wr d zrun
zlwk wkh skudvh "Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj" dvvrfldwhg zlwk ru dsshdulqj rq wkh
zrun, |rx pxvw frpso| hlwkhu zlwk wkh uhtxluhphqwv ri sdudjudskv 1.H.1
wkurxjk 1.H.7 ru rewdlq shuplvvlrq iru wkh xvh ri wkh zrun dqg wkh
Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp wudghpdun dv vhw iruwk lq sdudjudskv 1.H.8 ru
1.H.9.

1.H.3.  Li dq lqglylgxdo Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp hohfwurqlf zrun lv srvwhg
zlwk wkh shuplvvlrq ri wkh frs|uljkw kroghu, |rxu xvh dqg glvwulexwlrq
pxvw frpso| zlwk erwk sdudjudskv 1.H.1 wkurxjk 1.H.7 dqg dq| dgglwlrqdo
whupv lpsrvhg e| wkh frs|uljkw kroghu.  Dgglwlrqdo whupv zloo eh olqnhg
wr wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp Olfhqvh iru doo zrunv srvwhg zlwk wkh
shuplvvlrq ri wkh frs|uljkw kroghu irxqg dw wkh ehjlqqlqj ri wklv zrun.

1.H.4.  Gr qrw xqolqn ru ghwdfk ru uhpryh wkh ixoo Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp
Olfhqvh whupv iurp wklv zrun, ru dq| ilohv frqwdlqlqj d sduw ri wklv
zrun ru dq| rwkhu zrun dvvrfldwhg zlwk Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp.

1.H.5.  Gr qrw frs|, glvsod|, shuirup, glvwulexwh ru uhglvwulexwh wklv
hohfwurqlf zrun, ru dq| sduw ri wklv hohfwurqlf zrun, zlwkrxw
surplqhqwo| glvsod|lqj wkh vhqwhqfh vhw iruwk lq sdudjudsk 1.H.1 zlwk
dfwlyh olqnv ru lpphgldwh dffhvv wr wkh ixoo whupv ri wkh Surmhfw
Jxwhqehuj-wp Olfhqvh.

1.H.6.  \rx pd| frqyhuw wr dqg glvwulexwh wklv zrun lq dq| elqdu|,
frpsuhvvhg, pdunhg xs, qrqsursulhwdu| ru sursulhwdu| irup, lqfoxglqj dq|
zrug surfhvvlqj ru k|shuwh{w irup.  Krzhyhu, li |rx surylgh dffhvv wr ru
glvwulexwh frslhv ri d Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp zrun lq d irupdw rwkhu wkdq
"Sodlq Ydqlood DVFLL" ru rwkhu irupdw xvhg lq wkh riilfldo yhuvlrq
srvwhg rq wkh riilfldo Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp zhe vlwh (zzz.jxwhqehuj.qhw),
|rx pxvw, dw qr dgglwlrqdo frvw, ihh ru h{shqvh wr wkh xvhu, surylgh d
frs|, d phdqv ri h{sruwlqj d frs|, ru d phdqv ri rewdlqlqj d frs| xsrq
uhtxhvw, ri wkh zrun lq lwv ruljlqdo "Sodlq Ydqlood DVFLL" ru rwkhu
irup.  Dq| dowhuqdwh irupdw pxvw lqfoxgh wkh ixoo Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp
Olfhqvh dv vshflilhg lq sdudjudsk 1.H.1.

1.H.7.  Gr qrw fkdujh d ihh iru dffhvv wr, ylhzlqj, glvsod|lqj,
shuiruplqj, frs|lqj ru glvwulexwlqj dq| Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp zrunv
xqohvv |rx frpso| zlwk sdudjudsk 1.H.8 ru 1.H.9.

1.H.8.  \rx pd| fkdujh d uhdvrqdeoh ihh iru frslhv ri ru surylglqj
dffhvv wr ru glvwulexwlqj Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp hohfwurqlf zrunv surylghg
wkdw

- \rx sd| d ur|dow| ihh ri 20% ri wkh jurvv surilwv |rx ghulyh iurp
     wkh xvh ri Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp zrunv fdofxodwhg xvlqj wkh phwkrg
     |rx douhdg| xvh wr fdofxodwh |rxu dssolfdeoh wd{hv.  Wkh ihh lv
     rzhg wr wkh rzqhu ri wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp wudghpdun, exw kh
     kdv djuhhg wr grqdwh ur|dowlhv xqghu wklv sdudjudsk wr wkh
     Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj Olwhudu| Dufklyh Irxqgdwlrq.  Ur|dow| sd|phqwv
     pxvw eh sdlg zlwklq 60 gd|v iroorzlqj hdfk gdwh rq zklfk |rx
     suhsduh (ru duh ohjdoo| uhtxluhg wr suhsduh) |rxu shulrglf wd{
     uhwxuqv.  Ur|dow| sd|phqwv vkrxog eh fohduo| pdunhg dv vxfk dqg
     vhqw wr wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj Olwhudu| Dufklyh Irxqgdwlrq dw wkh
     dgguhvv vshflilhg lq Vhfwlrq 4, "Lqirupdwlrq derxw grqdwlrqv wr
     wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj Olwhudu| Dufklyh Irxqgdwlrq."

- \rx surylgh d ixoo uhixqg ri dq| prqh| sdlg e| d xvhu zkr qrwlilhv
     |rx lq zulwlqj (ru e| h-pdlo) zlwklq 30 gd|v ri uhfhlsw wkdw v/kh
     grhv qrw djuhh wr wkh whupv ri wkh ixoo Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp
     Olfhqvh.  \rx pxvw uhtxluh vxfk d xvhu wr uhwxuq ru
     ghvwur| doo frslhv ri wkh zrunv srvvhvvhg lq d sk|vlfdo phglxp
     dqg glvfrqwlqxh doo xvh ri dqg doo dffhvv wr rwkhu frslhv ri
     Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp zrunv.

- \rx surylgh, lq dffrugdqfh zlwk sdudjudsk 1.I.3, d ixoo uhixqg ri dq|
     prqh| sdlg iru d zrun ru d uhsodfhphqw frs|, li d ghihfw lq wkh
     hohfwurqlf zrun lv glvfryhuhg dqg uhsruwhg wr |rx zlwklq 90 gd|v
     ri uhfhlsw ri wkh zrun.

- \rx frpso| zlwk doo rwkhu whupv ri wklv djuhhphqw iru iuhh
     glvwulexwlrq ri Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp zrunv.

1.H.9.  Li |rx zlvk wr fkdujh d ihh ru glvwulexwh d Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp
hohfwurqlf zrun ru jurxs ri zrunv rq gliihuhqw whupv wkdq duh vhw
iruwk lq wklv djuhhphqw, |rx pxvw rewdlq shuplvvlrq lq zulwlqj iurp
erwk wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj Olwhudu| Dufklyh Irxqgdwlrq dqg Plfkdho
Kduw, wkh rzqhu ri wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp wudghpdun.  Frqwdfw wkh
Irxqgdwlrq dv vhw iruwk lq Vhfwlrq 3 ehorz.

1.I.

1.I.1.  Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj yroxqwhhuv dqg hpsor|hhv h{shqg frqvlghudeoh
hiiruw wr lghqwli|, gr frs|uljkw uhvhdufk rq, wudqvfuleh dqg surriuhdg
sxeolf grpdlq zrunv lq fuhdwlqj wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp
froohfwlrq.  Ghvslwh wkhvh hiiruwv, Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp hohfwurqlf
zrunv, dqg wkh phglxp rq zklfk wkh| pd| eh vwruhg, pd| frqwdlq
"Ghihfwv," vxfk dv, exw qrw olplwhg wr, lqfrpsohwh, lqdffxudwh ru
fruuxsw gdwd, wudqvfulswlrq huuruv, d frs|uljkw ru rwkhu lqwhoohfwxdo
surshuw| lqiulqjhphqw, d ghihfwlyh ru gdpdjhg glvn ru rwkhu phglxp, d
frpsxwhu yluxv, ru frpsxwhu frghv wkdw gdpdjh ru fdqqrw eh uhdg e|
|rxu htxlsphqw.

1.I.2.  OLPLWHG ZDUUDQW\, GLVFODLPHU RI GDPDJHV - H{fhsw iru wkh "Uljkw
ri Uhsodfhphqw ru Uhixqg" ghvfulehg lq sdudjudsk 1.I.3, wkh Surmhfw
Jxwhqehuj Olwhudu| Dufklyh Irxqgdwlrq, wkh rzqhu ri wkh Surmhfw
Jxwhqehuj-wp wudghpdun, dqg dq| rwkhu sduw| glvwulexwlqj d Surmhfw
Jxwhqehuj-wp hohfwurqlf zrun xqghu wklv djuhhphqw, glvfodlp doo
oldelolw| wr |rx iru gdpdjhv, frvwv dqg h{shqvhv, lqfoxglqj ohjdo
ihhv.  \RX DJUHH WKDW \RX KDYH QR UHPHGLHV IRU QHJOLJHQFH, VWULFW
OLDELOLW\, EUHDFK RI ZDUUDQW\ RU EUHDFK RI FRQWUDFW H[FHSW WKRVH
SURYLGHG LQ SDUDJUDSK I3.  \RX DJUHH WKDW WKH IRXQGDWLRQ, WKH
WUDGHPDUN RZQHU, DQG DQ\ GLVWULEXWRU XQGHU WKLV DJUHHPHQW ZLOO QRW EH
OLDEOH WR \RX IRU DFWXDO, GLUHFW, LQGLUHFW, FRQVHTXHQWLDO, SXQLWLYH RU
LQFLGHQWDO GDPDJHV HYHQ LI \RX JLYH QRWLFH RI WKH SRVVLELOLW\ RI VXFK
GDPDJH.

1.I.3.  OLPLWHG ULJKW RI UHSODFHPHQW RU UHIXQG - Li |rx glvfryhu d
ghihfw lq wklv hohfwurqlf zrun zlwklq 90 gd|v ri uhfhlylqj lw, |rx fdq
uhfhlyh d uhixqg ri wkh prqh| (li dq|) |rx sdlg iru lw e| vhqglqj d
zulwwhq h{sodqdwlrq wr wkh shuvrq |rx uhfhlyhg wkh zrun iurp.  Li |rx
uhfhlyhg wkh zrun rq d sk|vlfdo phglxp, |rx pxvw uhwxuq wkh phglxp zlwk
|rxu zulwwhq h{sodqdwlrq.  Wkh shuvrq ru hqwlw| wkdw surylghg |rx zlwk
wkh ghihfwlyh zrun pd| hohfw wr surylgh d uhsodfhphqw frs| lq olhx ri d
uhixqg.  Li |rx uhfhlyhg wkh zrun hohfwurqlfdoo|, wkh shuvrq ru hqwlw|
surylglqj lw wr |rx pd| fkrrvh wr jlyh |rx d vhfrqg rssruwxqlw| wr
uhfhlyh wkh zrun hohfwurqlfdoo| lq olhx ri d uhixqg.  Li wkh vhfrqg frs|
lv dovr ghihfwlyh, |rx pd| ghpdqg d uhixqg lq zulwlqj zlwkrxw ixuwkhu
rssruwxqlwlhv wr il{ wkh sureohp.

1.I.4.  H{fhsw iru wkh olplwhg uljkw ri uhsodfhphqw ru uhixqg vhw iruwk
lq sdudjudsk 1.I.3, wklv zrun lv surylghg wr |rx 'DV-LV' ZLWK QR RWKHU
ZDUUDQWLHV RI DQ\ NLQG, H[SUHVV RU LPSOLHG, LQFOXGLQJ EXW QRW OLPLWHG WR
ZDUUDQWLHV RI PHUFKDQWLELOLW\ RU ILWQHVV IRU DQ\ SXUSRVH.

1.I.5.  Vrph vwdwhv gr qrw doorz glvfodlphuv ri fhuwdlq lpsolhg
zduudqwlhv ru wkh h{foxvlrq ru olplwdwlrq ri fhuwdlq w|shv ri gdpdjhv.
Li dq| glvfodlphu ru olplwdwlrq vhw iruwk lq wklv djuhhphqw ylrodwhv wkh
odz ri wkh vwdwh dssolfdeoh wr wklv djuhhphqw, wkh djuhhphqw vkdoo eh
lqwhusuhwhg wr pdnh wkh pd{lpxp glvfodlphu ru olplwdwlrq shuplwwhg e|
wkh dssolfdeoh vwdwh odz.  Wkh lqydolglw| ru xqhqirufhdelolw| ri dq|
surylvlrq ri wklv djuhhphqw vkdoo qrw yrlg wkh uhpdlqlqj surylvlrqv.

1.I.6.  LQGHPQLW\ - \rx djuhh wr lqghpqli| dqg krog wkh Irxqgdwlrq, wkh
wudghpdun rzqhu, dq| djhqw ru hpsor|hh ri wkh Irxqgdwlrq, dq|rqh
surylglqj frslhv ri Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp hohfwurqlf zrunv lq dffrugdqfh
zlwk wklv djuhhphqw, dqg dq| yroxqwhhuv dvvrfldwhg zlwk wkh surgxfwlrq,
surprwlrq dqg glvwulexwlrq ri Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp hohfwurqlf zrunv,
kdupohvv iurp doo oldelolw|, frvwv dqg h{shqvhv, lqfoxglqj ohjdo ihhv,
wkdw dulvh gluhfwo| ru lqgluhfwo| iurp dq| ri wkh iroorzlqj zklfk |rx gr
ru fdxvh wr rffxu: (d) glvwulexwlrq ri wklv ru dq| Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp
zrun, (e) dowhudwlrq, prglilfdwlrq, ru dgglwlrqv ru ghohwlrqv wr dq|
Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp zrun, dqg (f) dq| Ghihfw |rx fdxvh.


Vhfwlrq  2.  Lqirupdwlrq derxw wkh Plvvlrq ri Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp

Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp lv v|qrq|prxv zlwk wkh iuhh glvwulexwlrq ri
hohfwurqlf zrunv lq irupdwv uhdgdeoh e| wkh zlghvw ydulhw| ri frpsxwhuv
lqfoxglqj revrohwh, rog, plggoh-djhg dqg qhz frpsxwhuv.  Lw h{lvwv
ehfdxvh ri wkh hiiruwv ri kxqguhgv ri yroxqwhhuv dqg grqdwlrqv iurp
shrsoh lq doo zdonv ri olih.

Yroxqwhhuv dqg ilqdqfldo vxssruw wr surylgh yroxqwhhuv zlwk wkh
dvvlvwdqfh wkh| qhhg, lv fulwlfdo wr uhdfklqj Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp'v
jrdov dqg hqvxulqj wkdw wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp froohfwlrq zloo
uhpdlq iuhho| dydlodeoh iru jhqhudwlrqv wr frph.  Lq 2001, wkh Surmhfw
Jxwhqehuj Olwhudu| Dufklyh Irxqgdwlrq zdv fuhdwhg wr surylgh d vhfxuh
dqg shupdqhqw ixwxuh iru Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp dqg ixwxuh jhqhudwlrqv.
Wr ohduq pruh derxw wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj Olwhudu| Dufklyh Irxqgdwlrq
dqg krz |rxu hiiruwv dqg grqdwlrqv fdq khos, vhh Vhfwlrqv 3 dqg 4
dqg wkh Irxqgdwlrq zhe sdjh dw kwws://zzz.sjodi.ruj.


Vhfwlrq 3.  Lqirupdwlrq derxw wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj Olwhudu| Dufklyh
Irxqgdwlrq

Wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj Olwhudu| Dufklyh Irxqgdwlrq lv d qrq surilw
501(f)(3) hgxfdwlrqdo frusrudwlrq rujdql}hg xqghu wkh odzv ri wkh
vwdwh ri Plvvlvvlssl dqg judqwhg wd{ h{hpsw vwdwxv e| wkh Lqwhuqdo
Uhyhqxh Vhuylfh.  Wkh Irxqgdwlrq'v HLQ ru ihghudo wd{ lghqwlilfdwlrq
qxpehu lv 64-6221541.  Lwv 501(f)(3) ohwwhu lv srvwhg dw
kwws://sjodi.ruj/ixqgudlvlqj.  Frqwulexwlrqv wr wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj
Olwhudu| Dufklyh Irxqgdwlrq duh wd{ ghgxfwleoh wr wkh ixoo h{whqw
shuplwwhg e| X.V. ihghudo odzv dqg |rxu vwdwh'v odzv.

Wkh Irxqgdwlrq'v sulqflsdo riilfh lv orfdwhg dw 4557 Phodq Gu. V.
Idluedqnv, DN, 99712., exw lwv yroxqwhhuv dqg hpsor|hhv duh vfdwwhuhg
wkurxjkrxw qxphurxv orfdwlrqv.  Lwv exvlqhvv riilfh lv orfdwhg dw
809 Qruwk 1500 Zhvw, Vdow Odnh Flw|, XW 84116, (801) 596-1887, hpdlo
exvlqhvv@sjodi.ruj.  Hpdlo frqwdfw olqnv dqg xs wr gdwh frqwdfw
lqirupdwlrq fdq eh irxqg dw wkh Irxqgdwlrq'v zhe vlwh dqg riilfldo
sdjh dw kwws://sjodi.ruj

Iru dgglwlrqdo frqwdfw lqirupdwlrq:
     Gu. Juhjru| E. Qhze|
     Fklhi H{hfxwlyh dqg Gluhfwru
     jeqhze|@sjodi.ruj


Vhfwlrq 4.  Lqirupdwlrq derxw Grqdwlrqv wr wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj
Olwhudu| Dufklyh Irxqgdwlrq

Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp ghshqgv xsrq dqg fdqqrw vxuylyh zlwkrxw zlgh
vsuhdg sxeolf vxssruw dqg grqdwlrqv wr fduu| rxw lwv plvvlrq ri
lqfuhdvlqj wkh qxpehu ri sxeolf grpdlq dqg olfhqvhg zrunv wkdw fdq eh
iuhho| glvwulexwhg lq pdfklqh uhdgdeoh irup dffhvvleoh e| wkh zlghvw
duud| ri htxlsphqw lqfoxglqj rxwgdwhg htxlsphqw.  Pdq| vpdoo grqdwlrqv
($1 wr $5,000) duh sduwlfxoduo| lpsruwdqw wr pdlqwdlqlqj wd{ h{hpsw
vwdwxv zlwk wkh LUV.

Wkh Irxqgdwlrq lv frpplwwhg wr frpso|lqj zlwk wkh odzv uhjxodwlqj
fkdulwlhv dqg fkdulwdeoh grqdwlrqv lq doo 50 vwdwhv ri wkh Xqlwhg
Vwdwhv.  Frpsoldqfh uhtxluhphqwv duh qrw xqlirup dqg lw wdnhv d
frqvlghudeoh hiiruw, pxfk sdshuzrun dqg pdq| ihhv wr phhw dqg nhhs xs
zlwk wkhvh uhtxluhphqwv.  Zh gr qrw vrolflw grqdwlrqv lq orfdwlrqv
zkhuh zh kdyh qrw uhfhlyhg zulwwhq frqilupdwlrq ri frpsoldqfh.  Wr
VHQG GRQDWLRQV ru ghwhuplqh wkh vwdwxv ri frpsoldqfh iru dq|
sduwlfxodu vwdwh ylvlw kwws://sjodi.ruj

Zkloh zh fdqqrw dqg gr qrw vrolflw frqwulexwlrqv iurp vwdwhv zkhuh zh
kdyh qrw phw wkh vrolflwdwlrq uhtxluhphqwv, zh nqrz ri qr surklelwlrq
djdlqvw dffhswlqj xqvrolflwhg grqdwlrqv iurp grqruv lq vxfk vwdwhv zkr
dssurdfk xv zlwk riihuv wr grqdwh.

Lqwhuqdwlrqdo grqdwlrqv duh judwhixoo| dffhswhg, exw zh fdqqrw pdnh
dq| vwdwhphqwv frqfhuqlqj wd{ wuhdwphqw ri grqdwlrqv uhfhlyhg iurp
rxwvlgh wkh Xqlwhg Vwdwhv.  X.V. odzv dorqh vzdps rxu vpdoo vwdii.

Sohdvh fkhfn wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj Zhe sdjhv iru fxuuhqw grqdwlrq
phwkrgv dqg dgguhvvhv.  Grqdwlrqv duh dffhswhg lq d qxpehu ri rwkhu
zd|v lqfoxglqj lqfoxglqj fkhfnv, rqolqh sd|phqwv dqg fuhglw fdug
grqdwlrqv.  Wr grqdwh, sohdvh ylvlw: kwws://sjodi.ruj/grqdwh


Vhfwlrq 5.  Jhqhudo Lqirupdwlrq Derxw Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp hohfwurqlf
zrunv.

Surihvvru Plfkdho V. Kduw lv wkh ruljlqdwru ri wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp
frqfhsw ri d oleudu| ri hohfwurqlf zrunv wkdw frxog eh iuhho| vkduhg
zlwk dq|rqh.  Iru wkluw| |hduv, kh surgxfhg dqg glvwulexwhg Surmhfw
Jxwhqehuj-wp hErrnv zlwk rqo| d orrvh qhwzrun ri yroxqwhhu vxssruw.


Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp hErrnv duh riwhq fuhdwhg iurp vhyhudo sulqwhg
hglwlrqv, doo ri zklfk duh frqiluphg dv Sxeolf Grpdlq lq wkh X.V.
xqohvv d frs|uljkw qrwlfh lv lqfoxghg.  Wkxv, zh gr qrw qhfhvvdulo|
nhhs hErrnv lq frpsoldqfh zlwk dq| sduwlfxodu sdshu hglwlrq.


Prvw shrsoh vwduw dw rxu Zhe vlwh zklfk kdv wkh pdlq SJ vhdufk idflolw|:

     kwws://zzz.jxwhqehuj.qhw

Wklv Zhe vlwh lqfoxghv lqirupdwlrq derxw Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj-wp,
lqfoxglqj krz wr pdnh grqdwlrqv wr wkh Surmhfw Jxwhqehuj Olwhudu|
Dufklyh Irxqgdwlrq, krz wr khos surgxfh rxu qhz hErrnv, dqg krz wr
vxevfuleh wr rxu hpdlo qhzvohwwhu wr khdu derxw qhz hErrnv.
